1. Anal Cell Pathol (Amst). 2019 Dec 3;2019:9684175. doi: 10.1155/2019/9684175. 
eCollection 2019.

Differential Diagnosis of Autoimmune Encephalitis from Infectious Lymphocytic 
Encephalitis by Analysing the Lymphocyte Subsets of Cerebrospinal Fluid.

Zhang QQ(1), Zhang YF(2), Yu N(2), Lin XJ(2), Di Q(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Nanjing Brain Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, 210029 Nanjing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, The Affiliated Nanjing Brain Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, 210029 Nanjing, China.

This study is aimed at investigating the lymphocyte subsets of cerebrospinal 
fluid (CSF) to provide possible differential diagnostic values and better 
understand the pathophysiological mechanism underlying autoimmune encephalitis 
(AE) and infectious lymphocytic encephalitis. A series of CD markers, including 
CD3/4/8/20 representing different types and developmental stages of lymphocytes, 
were used to count the corresponding subpopulations of CSF from clinical and 
laboratory confirmed cases of anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor AE (NMDAR-AE), 
herpes simplex virus encephalitis (HSVE), and tuberculous meningitis (TBM). The 
percentages of lymphocytes observed and the CD4 : CD8 ratios were compared 
between the three groups. There were no significant differences of the 
percentage of total lymphocytes, CD3 cells, and CD4 cells of CSF among each 
group. However, there were strongly statistical differences of the CD4 : CD8 
ratio in CSF of each group with 0.6 : 1 in NMDAR-AE, 0.9 : 1 in HSVE, and 
3.2 : 1 in TBM. The percentage of CD20 B lymphocytes in NMDAR-AE was 
statistically higher than that of other groups. The distinct percentages of 
lymphocyte subpopulations of CSF appeared to be characteristic and could 
potentially serve as diagnostic indicators. Further verification and research 
will be necessary to clarify the significance and nature of CD4 : CD8 ratios and 
B lymphocytes in CSF between AE and the infectious lymphocytic encephalitis.

Copyright © 2019 Qiao-quan Zhang et al.

DOI: 10.1155/2019/9684175
PMCID: PMC6914943
PMID: 31886122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflicts 
of interest.


2. Front Immunol. 2019 Nov 12;10:2611. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02611. eCollection
 2019.

Epidemiology of Antibody-Positive Autoimmune Encephalitis in Southwest China: A 
Multicenter Study.

Gu Y(1), Zhong M(2), He L(3), Li W(4), Huang Y(5), Liu J(6), Chen Y(3), Xiao 
Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University, 
Chongqing, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(4)Department of Neurology, Daping Hospital & Research Institute of Surgery, The 
Army Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(5)Department of Neurology, Southwest Hospital, The Third Military Medical 
University (Army Medical University), Chongqing, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Chongqing Three Gorges Central Hospital, Chongqing, 
China.

Comment in
    Front Immunol. 2020 Aug 28;11:1976. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2020.01976.

In recent years, as an increasing number of neuronal autoantibodies have been 
detected and used for clinical diagnosis, clinicians have become more aware of 
autoimmune encephalitis, causing its reported incidence to trend upward over 
several years. To date, however, there has been no large-scale epidemiological 
survey of autoimmune encephalitis in adults and children, and its 
epidemiological characteristics remain unclear. Six main types of antibodies are 
detected and used to diagnose autoimmune encephalitis in Chongqing, Southwestern 
China: anti-NMDA receptor antibody, anti-GABAB receptor antibody, anti-LGI1 
antibody, anti-CASPR2 antibody, anti-AMPA1 receptor antibody, and anti-AMPA2 
receptor antibody. From January 2012 to February 2018, 189 patients at six 
general hospitals in Chongqing were diagnosed with autoimmune encephalitis and 
were positive for neuronal autoantibodies. In this report, the epidemic 
situation and the antibody distribution among these patients are analyzed and 
described in detail. The differences in disease severity among different ages 
and between the sexes are evaluated, and the correlation between antibody titer 
and disease severity is also assessed.

Copyright © 2019 Gu, Zhong, He, Li, Huang, Liu, Chen and Xiao.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02611
PMCID: PMC6861323
PMID: 31781111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Pediatr Endocrinol Diabetes Metab. 2019;25(3):163-167. doi: 
10.5114/pedm.2019.87713.

Acquired autoimmune hypothyroidism as a cause of severe growth deficiency in one 
of the twin sisters.

[Article in English]

Kędzia A(1), Majewska K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Auxology and Pediatric Nursing, Poznan University of 
Medical Sciences, Po-land.

Acquired autoimmune hypothyroidism is rare in early childhood, however, it must 
be considered in a 4 year old child with medical his-tory of delayed growth, 
increased somnolence, difficulty concentrating, and reduced activity. We report 
on the case of full clinical picture of severe hypothyroidism in one of the 
twins. Thyroid function deteriorated in one of the sisters, resulting in mental, 
motor and growth slowdown, remaining undiagnosed for about 2 years, while the 
other sister developed normally. In the reported case, severe hypothy-roidism 
and growth deficiency were accompanied by celiac disease. Initiation of 
L-thyroxine therapy resulted in an immediate response that increased the growth 
velocity by more than 2.2 times. This confirms the dominant role of thyroid 
hormones over celiac disease in the growth process, as the catch up effect 
started before gluten free diet was introduced.

Publisher: Nabyta autoimmunologiczna niedoczynność tarczycy występuje rzadko we 
wczesnym dzieciństwie, jednak należy ją rozważyć u 4-letniego dziecka z wywiadem 
opóźnionego wzrastania, zwiększonej senności, zaburzeniami koncentracji i 
obniżoną aktywnością. Opi-sano przypadek pełnego obrazu klinicznego ciężkiej 
niedoczynności tarczycy u jednej z sióstr pochodzących z ciąży bliźniaczej. 
Dys-funkcja tarczycy spowodowała u niej spowolnienie umysłowe, motoryczne i 
wzrostowe, jednocześnie pozostając nierozpoznana przez ok. 2 lata, podczas gdy 
jej siostra rozwijała się normalnie. W opisywanym przypadku ciężkiej 
niedoczynności tarczycy i niedoborowi wzrostu towarzyszyła celiakia. Rozpoczęcie 
terapii L-tyroksyną spowodowało natychmiastową reakcję zwiększenia tempa 
wzrastania o ponad 2,2 razy. Potwierdza to dominującą rolę hormonów tarczycy nad 
chorobą trzewną w procesie wzrastania, ponieważ efekt nadra-biania zaległości 
rozpoczął się przed wprowadzeniem diety bezglutenowej.

DOI: 10.5114/pedm.2019.87713
PMID: 31769275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Pan Afr Med J. 2019 Sep 30;34:59. doi: 10.11604/pamj.2019.34.59.10144. 
eCollection 2019.

[Hypothyroidism and myasthenia: a case study].

[Article in French]

Salhi H(1), Ajdi F(2).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Endocrinologie-Diabétologie, CHU Hassan II, Faculté de Médecine et 
de Pharmacie, Université Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah, Fès, Maroc.
(2)Endocrinologie et Maladies Métaboliques, Faculté de Médecine et de Pharmacie 
Université Ibn Zohr, Agadir, Maroc.

Several disorders of immunological origin, in particular thyroid disorders have 
been reported in patients with myasthenia. This relationship has been little 
elucidated but in patients with myasthenia and Graves' disease was found an 
immunological cross-reaction between the neuromuscular junction and thyroid 
components. It is generally accepted that the association between 
hyperthyroidism and myasthenia is much more common than between myasthenia and 
hypothyroidism. However, there has been no clear explanation for this 
difference. We here report the case of a 53-year old patient treated for 
hypothyroidism due to suspected Hashimoto's disease well balanced under 
replacement therapy and whose evolution was marked by the detection of 
myasthenia during the follow up period. Myasthenia responded well to treatment 
based on neostigmine.

Plusieurs désordres d’origine immunologique spécifiquement thyroïdiens ont été 
reportés chez les patients myasthéniques. Cette relation reste peu élucidée mais 
une réaction immunologique croisée entre la jonction neuromusculaire et les 
composants de la thyroïde a été retrouvé dans la myasthénie et la maladie de 
Basedow. Il est généralement admis que l’association hyperthyroidie et 
myasthénie est beaucoup plus fréquente que celle entre myasthénie et 
hypothyroïdie. Toutefois, aucune explication claire n'a été proposée pour 
expliquer de cette différence. Nous rapportons le cas d’une patiente âgée de 53 
ans qui était suivie au début pour une hypothyroïdie sur probable thyroidite de 
Hashimoto bien équilibrée sous traitement substitutif et dont l’évolution a été 
marquée par la découverte d’une myasthénie au cours du suivie. Cette dernière a 
bien répondu au traitement par néostigmine avec une bonne évolution.

© Houda Salhi et al.

DOI: 10.11604/pamj.2019.34.59.10144
PMCID: PMC6859008
PMID: 31762924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Les auteurs ne déclarent aucun conflit 
d'intérêts.


5. Handb Clin Neurol. 2019;165:285-307. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-64012-3.00017-4.

Psychiatric manifestations and psychopharmacology of autoimmune encephalitis: A 
multidisciplinary approach.

Schieveld JNM(1), Strik JJMH(2), van Kraaij S(3), Nicolai J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Division of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry and Psychology, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: jan.schieveld@mumc.nl.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Division of Child and Adolescent 
Psychiatry and Psychology, Maastricht University Medical Center, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Toxicology, Maastricht University Medical 
Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands.
(4)Maastricht University Medical Center, Department of Neurology, Maastricht, 
The Netherlands.

The clinical presentations of autoimmune encephalitides tend to be a mixture of 
neuropsychiatric and somatic symptoms. The focus of this chapter concerns these 
clinical problems: the clinical phenomenology, the prevalence, and the possible 
pathophysiologies of anti-NMDAR or the other types of autoimmune encephalitis. 
We also specifically address the psychopharmacologic and nonpsychopharmacologic 
treatments. Our main questions are: What are the most used and best justified 
drug treatments? What are the most frequent side effects? And which other 
treatment options, such as ECT, are available? We discuss the main findings, 
present limitations, and we conclude by giving recommendations and presenting 
two algorithms.

Copyright © 2019 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-64012-3.00017-4
PMID: 31727218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Medicina (B Aires). 2019;79 Suppl 3:54-59.

[Autoimmune encephalitis. Anti-NMDA receptor and new immunophenotypes].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Erazo Torricelli R(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Niños Dr. Luis Calvo Mackenna, Clínica Alemana de Santiago, 
Universidad del Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile. E-mail: ricardoerazo@yahoo.com.

Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) is defined as neurological syndromes of subacute 
installation of compromise of consciousness, alteration of working memory and 
psychiatric disorders associated with abnormal movements and epileptic seizures 
and that are produced by the action of anti-neuronal antibodies. They bind to 
neurotransmitter receptors or membrane proteins. Antibody to NMDAR is the origin 
of the majority of cases of AD in children and young adults, followed by 
anti-LGI1 antibody for presentation in adults. The AE has increased in the last 
decade, with a large number of new agents described that produce mostly 
neurological syndromes that involve the central nervous system, with 
predominance of psychiatric signaling, except in children and the predominant 
abnormal movements, epileptic seizures and compromise of conscience. They are 
frequently associated with tumors in adults but in children this association is 
more infrecuent. All AEs respond to immunomodulatory therapy although in 
different measures depending on the type of antibody involved. In general, the 
evolution to improvement is slow and can be completed in months or even in one 
year or more. In this review, the main EA clinical pictures related to specific 
antibodies are highlighted, also mentioning recently discovered 
immunophenotypes.

Publisher: Las encefalitis autoinmunes (EA) se definen como síndromes 
neurológicos de instalación subaguda de compromiso de conciencia, alteración de 
la memoria de trabajo y trastornos psiquiátricos frecuentemente asociados a 
movimientos anormales y crisis epilépticas y que se producen por la acción de 
anticuerpos anti neuronales específicos que se fijan a receptores de 
neurotransmisores o proteínas de membrana. El anticuerpo anti NMDAR es el que 
origina la mayoría de los casos de EA en niños y adultos jóvenes, seguido por el 
anticuerpo anti LGI1 de presentación en el adulto. Las EA han aumentado en la 
última década, en la que se ha descrito un gran número de nuevos anticuerpos que 
producen en su mayoría síndromes neurológicos que involucran al sistema nervioso 
central, con predominio de signología psiquiátrica, excepto en niños en los que 
predominan movimientos anormales, crisis epilépticas y compromiso de conciencia. 
Se asocian frecuentemente a tumores en el adulto pero en los niños esta 
asociación es más rara. Todas las EA responden a terapia inmunomoduladora aunque 
en diferente medida según el tipo de anticuerpo involucrado. Generalmente la 
evolución a la mejoría es lenta y puede completarse en meses o incluso en un año 
o más. En esta revisión se destaca los principales cuadros de EA relacionados 
con anticuerpos específicos mencionando también los inmunofenotipos descubiertos 
recientemente.

PMID: 31603845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Front Immunol. 2019 Sep 10;10:2066. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02066. eCollection
 2019.

Innate Immunity in the Central Nervous System: A Missing Piece of the Autoimmune 
Encephalitis Puzzle?

Wesselingh R(1)(2), Butzkueven H(1)(2), Buzzard K(3)(4), Tarlinton D(5), O'Brien 
TJ(1)(2)(3), Monif M(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health 
Sciences, Central Clinical School, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(2)Department of Neurology, Alfred Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(3)Department of Neurology, Melbourne Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(4)Department of Neurology, Eastern Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(5)Department of Immunology, Faculty of Medicine, Nursing and Health Sciences, 
Central Clinical School, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

The autoimmune encephalitides are a group of autoimmune conditions targeting the 
central nervous system and causing severe clinical symptoms including 
drug-resistant seizures, cognitive dysfunction and psychiatric disturbance. 
Although these disorders appear to be antibody mediated, the role of innate 
immune responses needs further clarification. Infiltrating monocytes and 
microglial proliferation at the site of pathology could contribute to the 
pathogenesis of the disease with resultant blood brain barrier dysfunction, and 
subsequent activation of adaptive immune response. Both innate and adaptive 
immune cells can produce pro-inflammatory molecules which can perpetuate ongoing 
neuroinflammation and drive ongoing seizure activity. Ultimately 
neurodegenerative changes can ensue with resultant long-term neurological 
sequelae that can impact on ongoing patient morbidity and quality of life, 
providing a potential target for future translational research.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.02066
PMCID: PMC6746826
PMID: 31552027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Endokrynol Pol. 2019;70(6):463-468. doi: 10.5603/EP.a2019.0036. Epub 2019 Sep 
17.

Is ultrasound combined with computed tomography useful for distinguishing 
between primary thyroid lymphoma and Hashimoto's thyroiditis?

Luo J(1), Huang F(2), Zhou P(3), Chen J(4), Sun Y(4), Xu F(4), Wu L(4), Huang 
P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasound, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China. 2517118@zju.edu.cn.
(2)Department of Pathology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Radiology, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(4)Department of Ultrasound, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
University School of Medicine, Hangzhou, China.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of the study is to investigate the usefulness of 
ultrasound combined with computed tomography (CT) for distinguishing between 
primary thyroid lymphoma (PTL) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The investigation was conducted retrospectively in 80 
patients from January 2000 to July 2018. All patients underwent pathological 
tests to be classified into one of two groups: PTL group and HT group. The 
cut-off value of CT density was determined using receiver-operating 
characteristic (ROC) curve analysis. The accuracy, sensitivity, specificity, 
positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of 
diagnosis for thyroid by CT alone, ultrasound alone, and the combination of CT 
plus ultrasound were calculated.
RESULTS: Of the 80 study patients, 27 patients were PTL and 53 patients were HT. 
Mean CT density had a sensitivity of 90.6% and a specificity of 88.9% at a 
cut-off value of 53.5 HU, with area under the curve (AUC) 0.88. Ultrasound 
combined with CT had the highest specificity, accuracy, and PPV compared with CT 
alone and ultrasound alone (p value < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Features such as extremely hypoechogenicity, enhanced posterior 
echo, cervical lymphadenopathy in ultrasound image, and linear high-density 
strand signs, and very low density in CT imaging have high sensitivity and 
specificity in thyroid lymphoma. Therefore, ultrasound combined with CT may be 
useful for distinguishing between PTL and HT.

DOI: 10.5603/EP.a2019.0036
PMID: 31529457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Turk Patoloji Derg. 2019;35(3):213-220. doi: 10.5146/tjpath.2019.01461.

Changes in Conjunctiva Morphology Using Impression Cytology in Patients with 
Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis without Thyroid-Associated Ophthalmopathy.

Altay M(1), Şahin T, Yıldız Z, Şimşek G, Çıtırık M, Ateş İ, Dağdeviren M, 
Bitiren M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of Health Sciences, 
Keçiören Health Administration and Research Center, ANKARA, TURKEY

OBJECTIVE: To compare the conjunctival morphological changes in patients with 
Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (HT) without thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy (TAO) and 
controls using impression cytology technique.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: We included 25 HT patients and 33 healthy controls who did 
not have TAO findings or dry eye. For both groups, thyroid stimulating hormone 
(TSH), free T4(FT4), and anti-thyroid peroxidase (anti-TPO) were measured. 
Thyroid ultrasonography was performed, together with all routine eye check-ups 
and the Schirmer’s test. Also, conjunctival impression cytology (CIC) test was 
performed to analyze the conjunctival morphology.
RESULTS: When the CIC of HT patients was observed; 12% had grade 0, 40% had 
grade 1, 28% had grade 2 and 20% had grade 3. While patients with squamous 
metaplasia made up 48% of the HT group, this was observed at 6.1% in the control 
group (p < 0,001). In the regression model formulated, it was observed that 
obesity (OR=7.500; p=0.017) and anti TPO levels (OR=1.370, p=0,007) were 
independent stipulations for the squamous metaplasia.
CONCLUSION: Conjunctival squamous metaplasia was more frequently seen in HT than 
controls and serum Anti-TPO level and obesity were detected as independent 
predictors of the worsening at the conjunctival impression cytology.

DOI: 10.5146/tjpath.2019.01461
PMID: 31497938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. ORL J Otorhinolaryngol Relat Spec. 2019;81(5-6):281-286. doi:
10.1159/000501620.  Epub 2019 Sep 3.

Expression of NIS, VEGF-A and Thyroid Autoantibody in Papillary Thyroid 
Carcinoma with or without Hashimoto's Disease.

Ma Y(1), He J(2), Shen N(3), Guo R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Jiading District Central Hospital, Shanghai University 
of Medicine and Health Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Surgery, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology, Zhongshan Hospital, Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China, shen.na@zs-hospital.sh.cn.

BACKGROUND: Since the incidence of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) combined 
with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) has increased year by year, but the mechanism 
is still unknown, the goal of this study was to investigate the expression of 
Na+/I- symporter (NIS), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A and thyroid 
autoantibodies in HT combined with PTC, and to explore the relationship between 
HT and PTC.
METHODS: Real-time fluorescence quantitative polymerase chain reaction was used 
to detect the expression of VEGF-A and NIS in 38 cases of PTC and HT combined 
with PTC and in 20 cases of normal tissues; preoperative serum TPOAb and TgAb 
levels in each group were detected by ELISA.
RESULTS: The expression of VEGF-A in PTC and HT combined with PTC was 
significantly higher than that in normal tissues (p < 0.05), and the expression 
of VEGF-A in HT combined with PTC was higher than that in PTC (p < 0.05). The 
expression of NIS mRNA in PTC and HT combined with PTC was significantly 
decreased compared to that in normal tissues (p < 0.05), and NIS mRNA in HT 
combined with PTC tissue was lower than that in PTC tissue (p < 0.05). The 
preoperative levels of TPOAb and TgAb in the HT combined with PTC group were 
higher than those in the normal group and the PTC group (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The presence of HT may inhibit iodine uptake and cause a decrease in 
NIS. Increased levels of TPOAb and TgAb in HT patients lead to a high expression 
of TSH and stimulate VEGF secretion. This may explain why HT could accelerate 
the occurrence and development of PTC.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000501620
PMID: 31480047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. J Assoc Physicians India. 2018 Aug;66(8):91-92.

Neurofibromatosis Type 1 Associated with Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Kumar SSS(1), Palaniandavan S(2), Bhargavi MV(3), Gambeer AS(1), Nithyalakshmi 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate, Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospitals, Chennai, Tamil Nadu.
(2)Professor and Head of the Department,Sree Balaji Medical College and 
Hospitals, Chennai, Tamil Nadu.
(3)Assistant Professor, Sree Balaji Medical College and Hospitals, Chennai, 
Tamil Nadu.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a common form of chronic autoimmune thyroid disease 
(AITD) and it often coexists with other autoimmune diseases, but Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis associated with an autosomal dominant neurofibromatosis type 1 is 
exceedingly rare. A 30-year-old woman presented with complaints of headache for 
1 year on and off. Physical examination revealed nodular swelling in the neck, 
cafe-au-lait spots, and neurofibromas covering the entire surface of her body. 
Her thyroid hormones were within normal limits. Thyroid ultrasound revealed mild 
altered heterogeneous echo texture, multiple nodules of varying sizes, with 
hyper vascularity and ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration cytology revealed 
lymphocytic infiltration of the gland, suggesting Hashimoto's thyroiditis. High 
levels of autoimmune antibodies such as antithyroglobulin and antimicrosomal 
antibodies confirmed the diagnosis. When encountering a patient with 
Neurofibromatosis type 1, the possibility of associated autoimmune diseases 
should be considered. So further studies of such patients having combination of 
neurofibromatosis type 1 and autoimmune thyroiditis will certainly provide 
better understanding of this link in the near future.

© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2011.

PMID: 31324096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. Pan Afr Med J. 2019 Apr 17;32:186. doi: 10.11604/pamj.2019.32.186.18713. 
eCollection 2019.

Graves' disease following hypothyroidism due to Hashimoto's thyroiditis in a 
black South African lady: a case report.

Ekpebegh C(1), Elmezughi K(1), Mtingi L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Walter Sisulu University, Mthatha, South 
Africa.

Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis are autoimmune thyroid disorders 
with distinct pathological and histopathological features. The conversion from 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis to Graves' disease has been rarely reported throughout 
the world with no reports in the African race to our knowledge. We here report 
an African lady who was initially diagnosed with primary hypothyroidism 
following Hashimoto's disease but later became thyrotoxic due to Graves' 
disease.

DOI: 10.11604/pamj.2019.32.186.18713
PMCID: PMC6620106
PMID: 31312298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.


13. Front Immunol. 2019 Jun 7;10:1286. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.01286. eCollection
 2019.

Analysis of Clinical Characteristics and Poor Prognostic Predictors in Patients 
With an Initial Diagnosis of Autoimmune Encephalitis.

Qiu X(1)(2), Zhang H(3), Li D(1)(2), Wang J(4), Jiang Z(5), Zhou Y(5), Xu P(1), 
Zhang J(1), Feng Z(6), Yu C(1)(2), Xu Z(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University, 
Guizhou, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Brain Science, Zunyi Medical University, Guizhou, China.
(3)Department of Neurology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Chongqing Medical 
University, Chongqing, China.
(4)Department of Preventive Health Care, Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical 
University, Guizhou, China.
(5)School of Public Health, Zunyi Medical University, Guizhou, China.
(6)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Guizhou Medical University, 
Guizhou, China.

Purpose: We aimed to retrospectively analyze the clinical features, laboratory 
and imaging results, and predictors of poor prognosis for patients with an 
initial diagnosis of autoimmune encephalitis (AE) at the Affiliated Hospital of 
Zunyi Medical University. Methods: Fifty patients with an initial diagnosis of 
AE who were admitted to our hospital from May 2014 to May 2018 were enrolled 
retrospectively. Clinical characteristics and experimental test data, including 
the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR), were collected from medical records 
within 24 h of admission. Independent prognostic factors were determined by 
multivariate logistic regression analysis. A good or poor prognosis for patients 
was defined based on the modified Rankin Scale (mRS). The correlation between 
the immunotherapy latency and prognostic mRS score was determined using the 
Spearman rank correlation test. Results: Univariate analysis indicated that 
increased NLR (P = 0.001), decreased lymphocyte counts (P = 0.001), low serum 
albumin (P = 0.017), consciousness disorders (P = 0.001), epileptic seizures (P 
= 0.007), extrapyramidal symptoms (P = 0.042), abnormal electroencephalogram 
(EEG) findings (P = 0.001), abnormal brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
findings (P = 0.003), and pulmonary infection complications (P = 0.000) were 
associated with the poor prognosis of AE. Multivariate logistic regression 
analysis showed that NLR (odds ratio [OR] 2.169, 95% confidence interval [CI] 
1.029-4.570; P < 0.05) was an independent risk factor for predicting the poor 
prognosis of AE. NLR > 4.45 was suggested as the cut-off threshold for 
predicting the adverse outcomes of AE. In addition, we revealed that there was a 
positive correlation between immunotherapy latency and mRS score (rs = 0.535, P 
< 0.05). Conclusions: NLR may have predictive value for the poor outcomes of AE. 
Early initiation of immunotherapy is associated with a good prognosis.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.01286
PMCID: PMC6567932
PMID: 31231392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Rev Peru Med Exp Salud Publica. 2019 Jan-Mar;36(1):138-144. doi: 
10.17843/rpmesp.2019.361.3936. Epub 2019 May 13.

[Autoimmune encephalitis mediated by antibodies against the N-Nethyl-N-Aspartate 
receptor: report of four cases in Peru].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Palomino-Lescano H(1), Segura-Chávez D(1), Quispe-Orozco D(1), Castro-Suarez 
S(2), De la Cruz W(3), Zapata-Luyo W(3), Delgado-Ríos J(3), Cam J(4), 
Alvarado-Morales M(1), Paredes-Carcasi L(1), Cornejo-Herrera I(5), Meza-Vega 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Neurológicas. Lima, Perú.
(2)Centro de Investigación Básica en Demencias y Enfermedades Desmielinizantes 
del Sistema Nervioso, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Neurológicas. Lima, Perú.
(3)Departamento de investigación, docencia y atención especializada en 
epilepsia, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Neurológicas. Lima, Perú.
(4)Unidad de Cuidados Intensivos, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Neurológicas. 
Lima, Perú.
(5)Hospital Hipólito Unanue de Tacna. Tacna, Perú.

Autoimmune encephalitis with antibodies against the N-methyl-D-aspartate 
receptor (anti-NMDAR) is a disorder mediated by antibodies against neural 
surface antigens, whose early diagnosis and timely treatment improve the 
prognosis of the disease. Four cases with the definitive diagnosis of autoimmune 
encephalitis by anti-NMDAR are presented, treated at the National Institute of 
Neurological Sciences in Lima-Peru. All patients had epileptic seizures and 
three cases developed a refractory epileptic state. In addition, three patients 
presented neuropsychiatric alterations, dyskinesias, and dysautonomia. Two cases 
required ventilatory support. All presented an abnormal electroencephalogram; 
two cases had pleocytosis in cerebrospinal fluid, and only one showed brain 
abnormalities on MRI. Regarding treatment, all patients received 
methylprednisolone immunotherapy and only two of them required plasma exchange 
for an ineffective response to corticosteroid treatment. After 12 months of 
hospital discharge, three patients were free of epileptic seizures and only one 
case did not achieve functional independence. These cases show that anti-NMDAR 
encephalitis is a treatable condition and its early recognition together with 
appropriate treatment (immunotherapy/plasmapheresis) are essential for a 
favorable evolution.

Publisher: La encefalitis autoinmune por anticuerpos contra el receptor 
N-metil-D-aspartato (anti-NMDAR) es un desorden mediado por anticuerpos contra 
antígenos de superficie neuronal, cuyo diagnóstico temprano y tratamiento 
oportuno mejoran el pronóstico de la enfermedad. Se presentan cuatro casos con 
el diagnóstico definitivo de encefalitis autoinmune por anti-NMDAR, tratados en 
el Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Neurológicas en Lima-Perú. Todos los pacientes 
presentaron crisis epilépticas y tres casos desarrollaron un estado epiléptico 
refractario. Asimismo, tres pacientes presentaron alteraciones 
neuropsiquiátricas, discinesias y disautonomías. Dos casos requirieron soporte 
ventilatorio. Todos presentaron un electroencefalograma anormal, dos casos 
tuvieron pleocitosis en líquido cefalorraquídeo, y sólo uno mostró anormalidades 
cerebrales en la resonancia magnética. Respecto al tratamiento, todos los 
pacientes recibieron inmunoterapia con metilprednisolona y sólo dos de ellos 
requirieron plasmaféresis por respuesta ineficaz al tratamiento con corticoides. 
A los 12 meses del alta hospitalaria, tres pacientes quedaron libre de crisis 
epilépticas y sólo un caso no logró la independencia funcional. Estos casos 
muestran que la encefalitis anti-NMDAR es una condición tratable y su 
reconocimiento temprano junto con un tratamiento adecuado 
(inmunoterapia/plasmaféresis) son esenciales para una evolución favorable.

DOI: 10.17843/rpmesp.2019.361.3936
PMID: 31116328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Neuropsychobiology. 2019;78(2):70-78. doi: 10.1159/000499714. Epub 2019 May
16.

Clinically Relevant Anti-Neuronal Cell Surface Antibodies in Schizophrenia 
Spectrum Disorders.

Colijn MA(1), Ismail Z(2)(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada, 
mark.colijn2@ucalgary.ca.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(3)Mathison Centre for Mental HealthResearch and Education, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(4)Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University ofCalgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Schizophrenia is a phenotypically heterogeneous and poorly understood disorder. 
While its etiology is likely multifactorial, immune system dysfunction has 
increasingly been implicated in its development. As hallucinations and delusions 
occur frequently and prominently in autoimmune encephalitis (AE), numerous 
studies have sought to determine whether a small subset of individuals diagnosed 
with schizophrenia possess anti-neuronal antibodies implicated in AE. Exploring 
this possibility is of clinical relevance, as identifying individuals with AE 
who have been misdiagnosed as having a primary psychotic disorder may allow for 
the implementation of appropriate immune-related therapies as early as possible 
in the course of the illness, in order to optimize outcomes, reduce illness 
chronicity, and minimize adverse events. This qualitative review serves to 
provide an overview of the existing literature on this topic, as well as to 
update previously published reviews. Although there is some evidence to suggest 
that in rare cases AE may be misdiagnosed as a primary psychotic disorder, 
particularly early in the course of the illness, numerous methodological 
differences between studies likely account for the highly variable findings, and 
interpretation of the results is particularly limited by a paucity of 
cerebrospinal fluid data. Moreover, the prevalence of misdiagnosis in chronic 
and treatment-resistant populations remains understudied. This is particularly 
problematic, as treatment resistance may represent an enriched population with 
respect to the presence of anti-neuronal antibodies, and given that such 
patients have few evidence-based treatment options available to them beyond 
clozapine.

© 2019 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000499714
PMID: 31096226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. PLoS One. 2019 May 15;14(5):e0216941. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0216941. 
eCollection 2019.

HLA alleles, especially amino-acid signatures of HLA-DPB1, might contribute to 
the molecular pathogenesis of early-onset autoimmune thyroid disease.

Shin DH(1)(2), Baek IC(3), Kim HJ(3), Choi EJ(3), Ahn M(4), Jung MH(4), Suh 
BK(4), Cho WK(4), Kim TG(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Biomedicine & Health Sciences, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Hematopoietic Stem Cell Bank, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Korea.

The major histocompatibility complex region has been suggested to play an 
important role in the development of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD). In this 
study, we investigated the associations of human leukocyte antigen (HLA) alleles 
and amino acid variants of HLA with early-onset AITD. HLA class I and class II 
genes were analyzed in 116 Korean children with AITDs (Graves' disease [GD]: 71, 
Hashimoto's disease [HD]: 45) and 142 healthy controls. HLA-B*46:01 (OR = 3.96, 
Pc = 0.008), -C*01:02 (OR = 2.51 Pc = 0.04), -DPB1*02:02 (OR = 3.99, Pc = 0.04), 
and -DPB1*05:01 (OR = 4.6, Pc = 0.003) were significantly associated with GD, 
and HLA-A*02:07 (OR = 4.68, Pc = 0.045) and -DPB1*02:02 (OR = 6.57, Pc = 0.0001) 
with HD. The frequency of HLA-DPB1*05:01 was significantly higher in GD patients 
than in HD patients (Pc = 0.0005). Furthermore, differences were found between 
patients with Thyroid associated ophthalmopathy (TAO) and those without TAO in 
the distribution of HLA-B*54:01 (8.6% vs. 30.6%, P = 0.04) and -C*03:03 (37.1% 
vs. 11.1%, P = 0.02). In the analysis of amino acid variants of HLA molecules, 
both Leu35 (OR = 23.38, P = 0.0002) and Glu55 (OR = 23.38, P = 0.0002) of 
HLA-DPB1 were strongly associated with GD and showed different distributions 
between GD and HD (P = 0.001). Our results suggest that HLA alleles, especially 
amino-acid signatures of the HLA-DP β chain, might contribute to the molecular 
pathogenesis of early-onset AITD.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0216941
PMCID: PMC6519818
PMID: 31091281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


17. Intern Med. 2019;58(8):1167-1172. doi: 10.2169/internalmedicine.1289-18. Epub
 2019 Apr 15.

Hashimoto's Encephalopathy Presenting with Smoldering Limbic Encephalitis.

Nagano M(1), Kobayashi K(1), Yamada-Otani M(1), Kuzuya A(1), Matsumoto R(1), 
Oita J(2), Yoneda M(3), Ikeda A(4), Takahashi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shimizu Hospital, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Nursing and Social Welfare Sciences, Fukui Prefectural University, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Epilepsy, Movement Disorders and Physiology, Kyoto University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Japan.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is a steroid-responsive autoimmune 
encephalopathy associated with Hashimoto thyroiditis. We herein report a case of 
HE manifesting "smoldering" limbic encephalitis with persisting symptoms and 
abnormalities on examinations. Although our patient experienced partial clinical 
remission after treatment, hippocampal hypermetabolism on [18F] 
fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and subclinical 
seizures on video electroencephalography persisted. Hypermetabolism on FDG-PET 
was improved by additional prednisolone therapy. Thus, as with other autoimmune 
limbic encephalitis cases, HE can take a course of "smoldering" encephalitis. 
FDG-PET and electroencephalogram findings can reflect the disease activity 
degree in such patients, although with certain neurophysiological and 
biochemical distinctions.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.1289-18
PMCID: PMC6522399
PMID: 30982805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author's disclosure of potential Conflicts of 
Interest (COI). Akio Ikeda: Honorariam, Eisai and UCB Japan; Research funding, 
GlaxoSmithKline, Nihon Kohden Corporation, Otsuka Pharmaceuticals and UCB Japan.


18. Front Immunol. 2019 Mar 21;10:412. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.00412. eCollection
 2019.

New Variant of MELAS Syndrome With Executive Dysfunction, Heteroplasmic Point 
Mutation in the MT-ND4 Gene (m.12015T>C; p.Leu419Pro) and Comorbid Polyglandular 
Autoimmune Syndrome Type 2.

Endres D(1)(2), Süß P(1)(2), Maier SJ(1)(2), Friedel E(1)(2), Nickel K(1)(2), 
Ziegler C(2), Fiebich BL(2), Glocker FX(3), Stock F(4), Egger K(5), Lange T(6), 
Dacko M(6), Venhoff N(7), Erny D(8)(9), Doostkam S(8), Komlosi K(10), Domschke 
K(2), Tebartz van Elst L(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Section for Experimental Neuropsychiatry, Department of Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, Medical Center-University of Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Medical Center-University of 
Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Medical Center-University of Freiburg, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(4)Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.
(5)Department of Neuroradiology, Medical Center-University of Freiburg, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(6)Department of Radiology, Medical Physics, Medical Center-University of 
Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(7)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, Medical Center-University 
of Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(8)Institute of Neuropathology, Medical Center-University of Freiburg, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(9)Berta-Ottenstein-Programme, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.
(10)Institute of Human Genetics, Medical Center-University of Freiburg, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Comment in
    Front Immunol. 2019 Jun 21;10:1333. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.01333.

Background: Mitochondrial diseases are caused by dysfunctions in mitochondrial 
metabolic pathways. MELAS syndrome is one of the most frequent mitochondrial 
disorders; it is characterized by encephalopathy, myopathy, lactic acidosis, and 
stroke-like episodes. Typically, it is associated with a point mutation with an 
adenine-to-guanine transition at position 3243 of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA; 
m.3243A>G) in the mitochondrially encoded tRNA leucine 1 (MT-TL1) gene. Other 
point mutations are possible and the association with polyglandular autoimmune 
syndrome type 2 has not yet been described. Case presentation: We present the 
case of a 25-year-old female patient with dysexecutive syndrome, muscular 
fatigue, and continuous headache. Half a year ago, she fought an 
infection-triggered Addison crisis. As the disease progressed, she had two 
epileptic seizures and stroke-like episodes with hemiparesis on the right side. 
Cerebral magnetic resonance imaging showed a substance defect of the 
parieto-occipital left side exceeding the vascular territories with a lactate 
peak. The lactate ischemia test was clearly positive, and a muscle biopsy showed 
single cytochrome c oxidase-negative muscle fibers. Genetic testing of blood 
mtDNA revealed a heteroplasmic base exchange mutation in the mitochondrially 
encoded NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase core subunit 4 (MT-ND4) gene (m.12015T>C; 
p.Leu419Pro; heteroplasmy level in blood 12%, in muscle tissue: 15%). The 
patient suffered from comorbid autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type 2 with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis, Addison's disease, and autoimmune gastritis. In 
addition, we found increased anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase 65, anti-partial 
cell, anti-intrinsic factor, and anti-nuclear antibodies. Conclusion: We present 
an atypical case of MELAS syndrome with predominant symptoms of a dysexecutive 
syndrome, two stroke-like episodes, and fast-onset fatigue. The symptoms were 
associated with a not yet described base and aminoacid exchange mutation in the 
MT-ND4 gene (m.12015T>C to p.Leu419Pro). The resulting changed protein complex 
in our patient is part of the respiratory chain multicomplex I and might be the 
reason for the mitochondriopathy. However, different simulations for 
pathogenetic relevance are contradictory and rather speak for a benign variant. 
To our knowledge this case report is the first reporting MELAS syndrome with 
comorbid polyglandular autoimmune syndrome type 2. Screening for autoimmune 
alterations in those patients is important to prevent damage to end organs.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.00412
PMCID: PMC6437310
PMID: 30949164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Arch Psychiatr Nurs. 2019 Apr;33(2):211-213. doi: 10.1016/j.apnu.2018.11.007.
 Epub 2018 Nov 20.

Escitalopram related edema in a patient with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Roselle A(1).

Author information:
(1)GAP Geriatric and Adult Psychiatric Clinical Care and Research Center, United 
States. Electronic address: a.roselle@gapcare.org.

Advanced Practice Providers recognize and treat the most common side effects 
patients bring to our attention with the use of antidepressants, including 
insomnia, weight gain, emotional flattening, and sexual side effects. 
(https://www.psychcongress.com/article/top-5-side-effects-psychotropics-and-how-manage-them). 
We are, however, less intuitive and competent at picking up the high risk and 
rare, problem prone side effects our patients may experience related to the 
medications we prescribe, particularly in the more medically complex patients. 
In addition, the medically complex patient may mask a psychiatric concern as the 
psychiatric provider finds themselves caught up in the ambiguity of numerous 
somatic symptoms a patient presents with versus the psychiatric concerns that 
bear our attention. Autoimmune disorders often blur this line all too well 
affecting both psychiatric and physical well-being.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apnu.2018.11.007
PMID: 30927992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Pharmacol Rep. 2019 Apr;71(2):367-373. doi: 10.1016/j.pharep.2018.12.006.
Epub  2018 Dec 14.

Selenomethionine potentiates the impact of vitamin D on thyroid autoimmunity in 
euthyroid women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and low vitamin D status.

Krysiak R(1), Kowalcze K(2), Okopień B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland. Electronic address: r.krysiak@interia.pl.
(2)Department of Paediatrics in Bytom, School of Health Sciences in Katowice, 
Medical University of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Both exogenous vitamin D and selenium reduce thyroid antibody 
titers. The aim of the study was to investigate whether the impact of vitamin D 
on thyroid autoimmunity is affected by selenium intake.
METHODS: The study included 47 euthyroid women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and 
low vitamin D status, 23 of whom had been treated with selenomethionine (200 μg 
daily) for at least 12 months before the beginning of the study. During the 
study, all patients were treated with vitamin D preparations (4000 IU daily). 
Serum titers of thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies, as well as 
circulating levels of thyrotropin, free thyroid hormones and 25-hydroxyvitamin D 
were measured before vitamin D supplementation and 6 months later. Moreover, at 
the beginning and at the end of the study, we calculated Jostel's thyrotropin 
index, the SPINA-GT index and the SPINA-GD index.
RESULTS: With the exception of the free triiodothyronine/free thyroxine ratio 
and the SPINA-GD index, there were no differences between the study groups. In 
both groups, vitamin D increased 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels, reduced thyroid 
peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibody titers, as well as increased the SPINA-GT 
index. The effects on antibody titers and the SPINA-GT index were more 
pronounced in women receiving selenomethionine. Neither in 
selenomethionine-treated nor in selenomethionine-naïve women vitamin D affected 
serum hormone levels, Jostel's index and the SPINA-GD index.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study suggest that selenium intake enhances the 
effect of vitamin D on thyroid autoimmunity.

Copyright © 2018 Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences. 
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharep.2018.12.006
PMID: 30844687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Endocr Metab Immune Disord Drug Targets. 2019;19(7):1012-1021. doi: 
10.2174/1871530319666190226164309.

Dysregulated Interleukin -33/ST2 Pathway Perpetuates Chronic Inflammation in 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Wang X(1)(2), Shao X(2)(3), Liu X(4), Qin Q(2), Xu J(2), Zhang JA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Tongji Hospital, Tongji University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health 
Sciences Affiliated Zhoupu Hospital, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology and Translational Neuroscience Center, West 
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan, China.

OBJECTIVE: Hashimoto's Thyroiditis (HT) is an autoimmune disease, characterized 
by chronic inflammation of the thyroid gland with unknown etiologies. Recently, 
interleukin-33/ST2 (IL- 33/ST2) pathway reveals its participation in the process 
of several autoimmune diseases. In this study, the role of IL-33/ST2 pathway in 
the development of HT is investigated.
METHODS: The levels of plasma IL-33, sST2 and the frequency of circulating 
CD4+ST2L+T cells in 30 HT patients and 20 healthy controls were determined by 
enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and flow cytometry respectively. The 
mRNA expressions of related molecules in IL-33/ST2 pathway in thyroid tissues 
(12 HT patients and 10 controls) were detected by real-time quantitative PCR 
(RTqPCR). The protein expressions of IL-33 and ST2 were determined by Western 
blot and immunohistochemistry staining.
RESULTS: The mRNA expressions of plasma IL-33 and sST2 were elevated in HT 
patients, with an increased ratio of IL-33/sST2. The number of CD4+ST2L+ T cells 
in PBMCs of HT group was significantly increased when compared to the control 
group (CON) by Flow cytometry assay. MRNA Expression of IL-33 and ST2 in thyroid 
tissue and the level of IL-1β and IL-18 were significantly upregulated in HT 
patients, while IL-5 was down-regulated in HT patients, compared to CON. The 
expression of IL-1β and IL-18 were positively correlated with the expression of 
IL-33. Results of western blot and immunohistochemical staining were consistent 
with qPCR.
CONCLUSION: IL-33/ST2 pathway participates in HT via affecting the production of 
inflammatory cytokines.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.net.

DOI: 10.2174/1871530319666190226164309
PMID: 30819087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Pharmacol Rep. 2019 Apr;71(2):243-247. doi: 10.1016/j.pharep.2018.10.012.
Epub  2018 Oct 24.

The effect of vitamin D and selenomethionine on thyroid antibody titers, 
hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis activity and thyroid function tests in men 
with Hashimoto's thyroiditis: A pilot study.

Krysiak R(1), Szkróbka W(2), Okopień B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland. Electronic address: r.krysiak@interia.pl.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Both selenium and vitamin D were found to reduce thyroid antibody 
titers in women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
METHODS: The study enrolled 37 young drug-naïve euthyroid men with autoimmune 
thyroiditis, who were treated for 6 months with either exogenous vitamin D 
(group A, n = 20) or selenomethionine (group B, n = 17). Serum titers of thyroid 
peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies, serum levels of thyrotropin and free 
thyroid hormones, serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D, as well Jostel's 
thyrotropin, the SPINA-GT and the SPINA-GD indices were determined at the 
beginning and at the end of the study.
RESULTS: At baseline, there were no differences between the study groups. Both 
vitamin D and selenomethionine reduced antibody titers and increased the 
SPINA-GT index. Only selenomethionine affected the SPINA-GD index, while only 
vitamin D increased 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels. Neither selenomethionine nor 
vitamin D significantly affected thyrotropin and free thyroid hormone levels. 
The effect of vitamin D on antibody titers correlated with baseline and 
treatment-induced changes in serum levels of 25-hydroxivitamin D.
CONCLUSIONS: Both vitamin D and selenomethionine have a beneficial effect on 
thyroid autoimmunity in drug-naïve men with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Copyright © 2018 Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences. 
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharep.2018.10.012
PMID: 30818086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Pediatr Endocrinol Diabetes Metab. 2018;2018(3):145-150. doi: 
10.5114/pedm.2018.80997.

Papillary thyroid carcinoma in a patient with Turner syndrome treated with human 
growth hormone.

[Article in English]

Bautembach-Minkowska J, Birkholz-Walerzak D, Kędzia A, Myśliwiec M.

Thyroid cancer is a rare pathology in childhood and adolescence, being 
responsible for 1.5-3% of all carcinomas in this age group. Differentiated 
thyroid carcinoma is the most commonly found variant, especially papillary 
carcinoma of the thyroid (PCT). Currently available data support the hypothesis 
that growth hormone (GH) as well as insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) can 
facilitate carcinogenesis. There is a confirmed role of the GH/IGF-1 axis in 
cancer progression as an initiator of tumorigenesis and neoplastic 
transformation, metastasis, and resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy. 
Presently, application of recombinant GH is an acceptable method to treat female 
patients with growth failure during the course of Turner syndrome (TS). This 
article reports the case of a fourteen-year-old female patient with Turner 
syndrome, Hashimoto thyroiditis, and papillary thyroid carcinoma diagnosed 
during GH treatment. The immunochemical analysis of tumour tissue in our patient 
revealed intensive brown reaction that labelled expression of the IGF-1R vs. 
traced reaction or its lack in normal thyroid tissue. A significant role is 
played by IGF-1 in the pathogenesis of invasion of thyroid cancer; however, this 
effect is complex, and how it works is not well established.

Publisher: Rak tarczycy jest rzadko rozpoznawany u dzieci i nastolatków i 
stanowi 1,5–3% nowotworów w tej grupie wiekowej. Najczęściej mamy do czynienia 
ze zróżnicowanym rakiem tarczycy, głównie rakiem brodawkowatym. Obecnie leczenie 
hormonem wzrostu pacjentek z zespołem Turnera jest ogólnie akceptowaną metodą 
leczenia niskorosłości. Istniejące doniesienia popierają hipotezę, że zarówno 
hormon wzrostu, jak i duże stężenia insulinopodobnego czynnika wzrostu 1 
(insulin-like growth factor 1 – IGF-1) mogą sprzyjać nowotworzeniu. Bierze sie 
pod uwagę rolę osi GH/IGF-1 w progresji procesu nowotworowego, jako inicjatora 
kancerogenezy, przerzutów nowotworowych, oporności na chemioterapię i 
radioterapię oraz transformację nowotworową. W pracy przedstawiono pacjentkę 
z zespołem Turnera i chorobą Hashimoto, u której podczas leczenia rekombinowanym 
hormonem wzrostu rozpoznano raka brodawkowatego tarczycy. Badanie 
immunohistochemiczne tkanki nowotworowej u pacjentki wykazało intensywną reakcję 
wskazującą na obecność receptorów dla IGF-1 oraz bardzo słabą reakcję lub jej 
brak w zdrowej tkance tarczycy. Dotychczasowe doniesienia wskazują na bardzo 
ważną rolę IGF-1 w patogenezie i inwazyjności nowotworów złośliwych tarczycy. 
Jest ona złożona i jeszcze nie do końca poznana.

DOI: 10.5114/pedm.2018.80997
PMID: 30786680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Clin Lab. 2019 Jan 1;65(1). doi: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2018.180637.

Interference of High Dose Biotin Supplementation with Thyroid Parameters in 
Immunoassays Utilizing the Interaction between Streptavidin and Biotin: a Case 
Report and Review of Current Literature.

Mrosewski I, Neumann I, Switkowski R.

BACKGROUND: Automated immunoassays utilizing the interaction between 
streptavidin and biotin are widely used. Nonetheless, biotin remains an often 
overlooked confounder.
METHODS: We report the case of a 54-year-old female patient with progressive 
multiple sclerosis and Hashimoto's thyroiditis who presented herself for a 
follow-up. Measurements on Roche's cobas® 8000 modular analyzer series suggested 
severe hyperthyroidism. Initially, no relevant confounders could be identified.
RESULTS: All requested thyroid parameters were measured with alternative 
methods, yielding plausible results.
CONCLUSIONS: Biotin is a significant confounder in many immunoassays. 
Alternative measurement methods or methods of biotin neutralization need to be 
implemented for certain situations.

DOI: 10.7754/Clin.Lab.2018.180637
PMID: 30775873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Immunol Res. 2018 Dec;66(6):768-776. doi: 10.1007/s12026-018-9062-z.

A novel third-generation TSH receptor antibody (TRAb) enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay based on a murine monoclonal TSH receptor-binding antibody.

Roggenbuck JJ(1), Veiczi M(2), Conrad K(3), Schierack P(4), Wunderlich G(1), 
Kotzerke J(1), Roggenbuck D(2)(4), Zöphel K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Fetscherstr 74, 01307, Dresden, Germany.
(2)Medipan GmbH, Dahlewitz, Berlin, Germany.
(3)Institute of Immunology, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(4)Institute of Biotechnology, Faculty Environment and Natural Sciences, 
Brandenburg University of Technology, Senftenberg, Germany.
(5)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, 
Technische Universität Dresden, Fetscherstr 74, 01307, Dresden, Germany. 
klaus.zoephel@uniklinikum-dresden.de.

TSH receptor (TSHR) autoantibody (TRAb) is the serological hallmark of Graves' 
disease (GD). Third-generation enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs) using 
monoclonal TRAbs instead of TSH have been found useful for TRAb analysis 
recently. For the first time, a mouse monoclonal antibody (mAb) against TSHR was 
analyzed for TRAb detection and compared with human mAb M22 and TSH by the same 
competitive binding assay technique. A mouse monoclonal antibody (T7) binding to 
the TSH receptor and inhibiting TSH binding was generated and used for TRAb 
analysis in a third-generation ELISA. Obtained TRAb levels were compared with a 
second-generation TRAb assay employing bovine TSH and a third-generation assay 
with human mAb M22 as TSHR-binding reagents by investigating 89 patients with 
GD, 56 with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), 73 with non-autoimmune thyroid 
diseases, 17 with rheumatoid arthritis, and 100 healthy subjects. The T7-based 
TRAb ELISA did not reveal a significantly different assay performance (area 
under the curve [AUC]) in contrast to the TSH and M22-based TRAb ELISAs by 
receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis (AUC-T7 0.967, AUC-TSH 
0.972, AUC-M22 0.958, p > 0.05, respectively). After adjustment of cutoffs by 
ROC, all three TRAb ELISAs demonstrated sensitivities and specificities above 
89.9% and 96.0%, respectively. Both third-generation TRAb ELISAs showed a 
tendency for a higher prevalence of TRAb positives in HT in contrast to the 
second-generation ELISA. Mouse mAbs against the TSHR may be used for the 
reliable detection of TRAb by third-generation TRAb ELISA. The earlier reported 
higher sensitivity of third-generation TRAb ELISA in GD needs to be considered 
in the context of a slightly lower specificity regarding HT.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-018-9062-z
PMID: 30684216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. F1000Res. 2018 Jul 30;7:1154. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.15662.3.
eCollection  2018.

Case Report: Recurrent hypokalemic periodic paralysis associated with distal 
renal tubular acidosis (type 1) and hypothyroidism secondary to Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Meregildo-Rodríguez ED(1), Failoc-Rojas VE(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna y emergencia, Hospital Regional Lambayeque, 
Lambayeque, Peru.
(2)Unidad de Investigación para la Generación y Síntesis de Evidencias en Salud, 
Universidad San Ignacio de Loyola, Lima, Peru.

Background: Hypokalemic periodic paralysis (HypoKPP) is characterized by 
transient episodes of flaccid muscle weakness. We describe the case of a 
teenaged boy with HypoKPP and hyperthyroidism due to Hashimoto's thyroiditis 
with initial manifestation of renal tubular acidosis. This combination is rare 
and little described previously in men. Case presentation: A 17-year-old boy was 
admitted after three days of muscular weakness and paresthesia in the lower 
limbs with an ascending evolution, leading to prostration. Decreased strength 
was found in the lower limbs without a defined sensory level, reduced patellar 
and ankle reflexes. Positive antithyroid antibodies were found. He received 
hydration treatment, IV potassium and levothyroxine, with which there was a 
clinical improvement. Other examinations led to the diagnosis of type 1 renal 
tubular acidosis. Conclusion: HypoKPP is a rare disorder characterized by acute 
episodes of muscle weakness. Type 1 renal tubular acidosis can occur as a 
consequence of thyroiditis, which is explained by the loss of potassium. This 
combination is unusually rare, and has not been described before in men. The 
etiopathogenesis of the disease as well as a dynamic explanation of what 
happened with the patient are discussed in this report.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.15662.3
PMCID: PMC6325611
PMID: 30647907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No competing interests were disclosed.


27. Arch Endocrinol Metab. 2018;62(6):609-614. doi: 10.20945/2359-3997000000086.

Conversion to Graves disease from Hashimoto thyroiditis: a study of 24 patients.

Gonzalez-Aguilera B(1), Betea D(2), Lutteri L(3), Cavalier E(3), Geenen V(2), 
Beckers A(2), Valdes-Socin H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital Juan Ramón Jiménez (Huelva), 
Quirónsalud Hospital Group, Sevilla, Spain.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, CHU, Liège, Belgium.
(3)Department of Clinical Biology, CHU, Liège, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: The conversion of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) to hyperthyroidism due 
to thyrotropin receptor antibodies is intriguing and considered rare. The 
contribution of TSH receptor blocking antibodies (TRAb), which may be 
stimulators (TSAb) or blockers (TBAb), is suspected. We describe clinical and 
biological variables in a series of patients switching from Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis to Grave's disease.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Retrospective case study of 24 patients with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis followed during 48 ± 36 months that developed later Graves' disease 
(GD). These variables were analysed in the hypo and hyperthyroid phase: age, 
sex, initial TSH, free triiodothyronine (fT3), free thyroxine (fT4), anti-TPO, 
TBII antibodies, parietal cell autoantibodies, time between hypo and 
hyperthyroidism, thyroid volume and levothyroxine doses (LT).
RESULTS: In HT, mean TSH was 9.4 ± 26.1 UI/L and levothyroxine treatment was 
66.2 ± 30.8 µg/day. The switch to GD was observed 38 ± 45 months after HT 
diagnosis. As expected, we found significant differences on TSH, FT3, FT4 and 
TBAb levels. Three out of 14 patients had parietal cell autoantibodies. In two 
of these three cases there was an Helicobacter pylori infection. There were no 
significant differences between HT and GD groups with respect to thyroid volume.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, large series documenting the conversion of HT to 
GD are scarce. Although rare, this phenomenon should not be misdiagnosed. 
Suspicion should be raised whenever thyroxine posology must be tapered down 
during the follow-up of HT patients. Further immunological and genetic studies 
are needed to explain this unusual autoimmune change.

DOI: 10.20945/2359-3997000000086
PMCID: PMC10118676
PMID: 30624501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: no potential conflict of interest 
relevant to this article was reported.


28. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2018 Dec 23;40(12):967-968. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2018.12.014.

[Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis accompanied with primary osteosarcoma of 
thyroid : a case report and literature review].

[Article in Chinese]

Ren BX(1), Liu XL(2), Liu DS(3), Jing GW(1), Han S(1), Xiong L(1), Zhou CY(1), 
Zhang DC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, the First People's Hospital of Zunyi, Zunyi 
563002, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, the First People's Hospital of Zunyi, Zunyi 563002, 
China.
(3)Center of thyroid and mammary glands, the First People's Hospital of Zunyi, 
Zunyi 563002, China.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2018.12.014
PMID: 30605988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. J Autoimmun. 2019 Jan;96:24-34. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2018.10.014. Epub 2018
Oct  26.

Prognosticating autoimmune encephalitis: A systematic review.

Broadley J(1), Seneviratne U(2), Beech P(3), Buzzard K(4), Butzkueven H(5), 
O'Brien T(6), Monif M(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia. 
Electronic address: james.broadley12@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neuroscience, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; 
Department of Neuroscience, Monash Health, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Medicine, St Vincent's Hospital, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia.
(3)Department of Radiology, Alfred Health, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Radiology, Monash Health, Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Department of Neurosciences, Eastern Health, Melbourne, Australia; Department 
of Neurology, Melbourne Health, Melbourne, Australia.
(5)Department of Neuroscience, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; 
Department of Neurosciences, Eastern Health, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Neurology, Melbourne Health, Melbourne, Australia.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia; 
Department of Neurology, Melbourne Health, Melbourne, Australia; Department of 
Neurology, Alfred Health, Melbourne, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To perform a systematic review of the current scientific literature 
in order to identify variables associated with patient prognosis in autoimmune 
encephalitis.
METHODS: We performed a systematic literature search using MEDLINE, Embase, 
PubMed and PsychInfo databases. We selected studies that explored the 
correlation between early clinical and paraclinical findings, and patient 
outcomes. Data was extracted, analyzed and recorded in accordance with the 
Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic reviews and Meta-Analyses (PRISMA) 
guidelines.
RESULTS: Forty four publications detailing 2823 subjects matched our inclusion 
criteria. There was considerable heterogeneity in methodology, patient profile, 
investigation results and clinical outcome measures. Findings were often 
discrepant for cases of anti-NMDAR encephalitis when compared with other causes 
of autoimmune encephalitis. Delay in immunotherapy contributed to a variety of 
worse outcomes for patients with different subsets of autoimmune encephalitis. 
Altered consciousness, ICU admission and no use of immunotherapy were variables 
associated with poor prognosis in anti-NMDAR encephalitis. Older age, sex, the 
presence of status epilepticus, CSF abnormalities and MRI changes were unlikely 
to have significant prognostic value. The influence of antibody titers, 
autonomic dysfunction and underlying malignancy was unclear.
CONCLUSIONS: A number of variables were identified to have potential predictive 
value for outcomes in autoimmune encephalitis. Heterogeneous study design, size 
and quality were major limiting factors in this review.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2018.10.014
PMID: 30595145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2019 Feb;28:101-103. doi:
10.1016/j.msard.2018.12.017.  Epub 2018 Dec 14.

A rare concurrence: Antibodies against Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein and 
N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor in a child.

Sarigecili E(1), Cobanogullari MD(2), Komur M(3), Okuyaz C(4).

Author information:
(1)Mersin University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatric Neurology, 
Mersin, Turkey. Electronic address: sarigeciliesra@gmail.com.
(2)Mersin University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatric Neurology, 
Mersin, Turkey. Electronic address: m_lt_m82@hotmail.com.
(3)Mersin University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatric Neurology, 
Mersin, Turkey. Electronic address: drmustafakomur@yahoo.com.
(4)Mersin University, Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatric Neurology, 
Mersin, Turkey. Electronic address: cetinokuyaz@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein antibodies (MOG) may be used as 
a biomarker for diagnosis of many demyelinating diseases. Especially, patients 
of acute disseminated encephalomyelitis (ADEM), multiple sclerosis (MS), 
aquaporin-4 (AQP4) seronegative neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD), 
monophasic or recurrent optic neuritis (ON), transverse myelitis and 
N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor encephalitis (NMDARe) can overlap with 
Myelin Oligodendrocyte Glycoprotein antibodies. We present a child with 
autoimmune encephalitis in whom antibodies against Myelin Oligodendrocyte 
Glycoprotein (MOG) and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) were simultaneously 
detected. The clinical manifestation was characteristic of NMDAR encephalitis, 
and cranial and spinal magnetic resonance imaging showed no signs of 
encephalomyelitis. On the other hand, complete recovery within first days of 
steroid treatment was more compatible with the course of MOG antibody-related 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: We emphasize the rarity of this antibody combination in children 
and suggest these patients, although clinically improved, may require longer 
follow-up due to the risk of recurrence of two autoimmune disorders.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msard.2018.12.017
PMID: 30590238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Diagn Cytopathol. 2019 May;47(5):475-481. doi: 10.1002/dc.24140. Epub 2018
Dec  26.

Hürthle cell metaplasia in chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis: Role of age factor 
and review of literature on its molecular pathogenesis.

Das DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Faculty of Medicine, Kuwait University and Cytology 
Unit, Mubarak Al-Kabeer Hospital, Kuwait.

OBJECTIVES: Hürthle cell (HC) metaplasia is an important feature of chronic 
lymphocytic (Hashimoto) thyroiditis (HT). However, it is rarely observed in 
juvenile form HT. In a study based on fine needle aspiration cytology, the 
cytomorphological difference between pediatric HT and its adult form was 
studied, with special attention on HC metaplasia and its pathogenesis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The frequency of following 12 cytomorphological features 
in 16 pediatric and 104 adult HT cases were compared: follicular cells, lymphoid 
cells, HCs, plasma cells, lympho-histiocytic aggregates, epithelioid 
histiocytes, multinucleated giant cells, fire-flare appearance, colloid, 
intracytoplasmic lumen (ICL) with or without colloid inclusion, paravacuolar 
granules, and cyst cells. The age decade distribution of HC metaplasia was 
analyzed.
RESULTS: Significant difference was observed between pediatric HT and its adult 
form in respect of HC metaplasia and ICL with colloid inclusion in HC. HC were 
present in 7 (43.8%) of pediatric and 94 (90.4%) of adult HT cases 
(P = 0.00006). 1 (6.3%) pediatric and 35 (33.7%) adult HT cases had ICL with 
colloid inclusion in HC (P = 0.03698). As compared to first two decades of life, 
significantly higher number of cases revealed HC metaplasia in every decade from 
third decade onwards (P = 0.01290-0.00009); however, the difference in respect 
of ICL with colloid inclusions attained significance during sixth decade only 
(P = 0.00235).
CONCLUSIONS: Hürthlization, which appears to be survival response, is rare in 
pediatric HT and becomes more pronounced starting from third decade onwards; 
significant increase in ICL with colloid inclusion is a much more delayed 
phenomenon.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dc.24140
PMID: 30588770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2019 Apr;25(4):431-436. doi:
10.1016/j.cmi.2018.12.012.  Epub 2018 Dec 22.

Diagnostic tools for immune causes of encephalitis.

Lascano AM(1), Vargas MI(2), Lalive PH(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Faculty of Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
Agustina.Lascano@hcuge.ch.
(2)Division of Neuroradiology, Department of Imaging and Medical Information 
Sciences, Geneva University Hospitals, Geneva, Switzerland.
(3)Division of Neurology, Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Geneva University 
Hospitals, Faculty of Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) refers to a central nervous system 
(CNS) antibody-mediated entity characterized by a rapid onset behavioural and 
cognitive decline that can be associated with movement disorders, epileptic and 
dysautonomic features. Interestingly, it is thought to be as common as its 
infectious disease counterpart and can share some clinical, radiological, and 
laboratory findings.
OBJECTIVES: The aim is to describe the main clinical features of AE caused by 
antibodies targeting cell-surface neuronal agents and the diagnostic means to 
identify them. Paraneoplastic syndromes, associated with intracellular 
antibodies, will not be tackled in this review.
SOURCES: PubMed/MEDLINE were the sources.
CONTENT: According to a recent population-based study, autoimmunity is one of 
the most frequent cause of encephalitis after infectious agents. Its diagnosis 
lies upon 'classic' clinical features, which are dominated by neuropsychiatric 
symptoms and epileptic seizures. Cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) and serum 
autoantibody testing can confirm AE. Complementary examination with magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) and electroencephalogram (EEG) may be helpful for 
excluding other causes and managing seizures. In addition, exclusion of 
infectious and other origins must be considered.
IMPLICATIONS: AE misdiagnosis can lead to a delay in treatment onset and, thus, 
clinical worsening. In this sense, identifying the causative agent is of utmost 
importance. However, the absence of CSF or serum antibody detection does not 
exclude the diagnosis of AE. Despite extensive testing, many encephalitis cases 
remain of unknown origin. It is obvious that some autoantibodies have not yet 
been identified in AE. Since radiological and biological examinations are not 
always contributive, early symptom recognition might help to hasten the 
diagnostic process.

Copyright © 2018 European Society of Clinical Microbiology and Infectious 
Diseases. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmi.2018.12.012
PMID: 30583056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Autoimmun Rev. 2019 Feb;18(2):155-163. doi: 10.1016/j.autrev.2018.08.009.
Epub  2018 Dec 18.

An evolving redefinition of autoimmune encephalitis.

Esposito S(1), Principi N(2), Calabresi P(3), Rigante D(4).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Clinic, Department of Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Università 
degli Studi di Perugia, Perugia, Italy. Electronic address: 
susanna.esposito@unimi.it.
(2)Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan, Italy.
(3)Neurology Clinic, Department of Medicine, Università degli Studi di Perugia, 
Perugia, Italy.
(4)Institute of Pediatrics, Università Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy; 
Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli IRCCS, Rome, Italy.

Autoimmune encephalitis encompasses a wide variety of protean pathologic 
processes associated with the presence of antibodies against neuronal 
intracellular proteins, synaptic receptors, ion channels and/or neuronal surface 
proteins. This type of encephalitis can also involve children with complex 
patterns of seizures and unexpected behavioural changes, which jeopardize their 
prompt recognition and treatment. Many epidemiological studies have shown that 
numerous immune-based forms of encephalitis can be encountered, almost 
surpassing the rate of postinfectious encephalitides. However, the overall exact 
prevalence of autoimmune encephalopathies remains underestimated, and the 
definition of diagnostic algorithms results muddled. The spectrum of 
neuropsychiatric manifestations in the pediatric population with autoimmune 
encephalitis is less clear than in adults, but the integration of clinical, 
immunological, electrophysiological and neuroradiological data is essential for 
a general approach to patients. In this review we report the most relevant data 
about both immunologic and clinical characteristics of the main autoimmune 
encephalitides recognized so far, with the aim of assisting clinicians in the 
differential diagnosis and favouring an early effective treatment. Correlations 
between phenotype and autoantibodies involved in the neurological damage of 
autoimmune encephalitis are largely unknown in the first years of life, because 
of the relatively small number of pediatric patients adequately studied. Future 
multicenter collaborative studies are needed to improve the diagnostic approach 
and tailor personalized therapies in the long-term.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.autrev.2018.08.009
PMID: 30572142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Acta Clin Belg. 2020 Apr;75(2):104-108. doi: 10.1080/17843286.2018.1555115.
Epub  2018 Dec 20.

The impact of familial predisposition on the development of Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Kust D(1), Matesa N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Center 
"Sestre Milosrdnice", Zagreb, Croatia.

Objectives: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is a common autoimmune disease. 
Available data show that HT develops as a result of interaction between genetic 
susceptibility and environmental factors, but the exact pathogenesis of the 
disease is not yet fully understood. The aim of this investigation is to 
evaluate the potential relationship between family history of HT and the 
development of HT.Methods: Data regarding family history of all patients who 
were referred for a diagnostic evaluation of thyroid function for any reason 
between May 2014 and May 2018 was analyzed. Only first-degree relatives were 
considered significant, whereas the data of distant relatives was not 
collected.Results: A total of 39 patients with positive family history of HT 
were extracted (Hashimoto group). As a control group, 39 patients with negative 
family history of HT were randomly chosen from the same database for the final 
analysis. When analyzing cytological diagnoses, there were 17 patients with 
confirmed HT in the Hashimoto group, and 7 in the control group (p 
= 0.0262).Conclusion: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study 
directly showing that there is genetic predisposition for the development of HT 
in patients with positive family history of the disease (43.59% of patients with 
positive family history developed HT themselves). Assessment of a patient's 
family history in detail should become a standard procedure when a patient with 
any thyroid disorder is referred for diagnostic evaluation.

DOI: 10.1080/17843286.2018.1555115
PMID: 30570414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Reumatismo. 2018 Dec 20;70(4):268-269. doi: 10.4081/reumatismo.2018.1090.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy in a patient with septal panniculitis: a case report.

Cosso C(1), Ghio M, Cutolo M.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Reumatologica, Policlinico San Martino, Genova. 
claudio.cosso86@gmail.com.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is an autoimmune form of encephalopathy, 
associated with autoimmune thyroiditis. Its prevalence is estimated to be 
2:100,000. HE is characterized by behavioral changes, mental confusion, 
dysarthria, ataxia, psychosis, paranoia, convulsions, hallucinations, headache 
and hyperthermia. Elevated thyroid antibodies are necessary for diagnosis and 
the disease responds dramatically to glucocorticoid therapy. We describe a 
patient with HE and panniculitis, an association reported twice in the 
literature.

DOI: 10.4081/reumatismo.2018.1090
PMID: 30570247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Neurol Neuroimmunol Neuroinflamm. 2018 Oct 30;6(1):e514. doi: 
10.1212/NXI.0000000000000514. eCollection 2019 Jan.

Management and prognostic markers in patients with autoimmune encephalitis 
requiring ICU treatment.

Schubert J(1), Brämer D(1), Huttner HB(1), Gerner ST(1), Fuhrer H(1), Melzer 
N(1), Dik A(1), Prüss H(1), Ly LT(1), Fuchs K(1), Leypoldt F(1), Nissen G(1), 
Schirotzek I(1), Dohmen C(1), Bösel J(1), Lewerenz J(1), Thaler F(1), Kraft 
A(1), Juranek A(1), Ringelstein M(1), Sühs KW(1), Urbanek C(1), Scherag A(1), 
Geis C(1), Witte OW(1), Günther A(1); GENERATE and IGNITE network.

Author information:
(1)Hans-Berger-Department of Neurology (J.S., D.B., C.G., O.W.W., A.G.), Jena 
University Hospital; Department of Neurology (H.B.H., S.T.G.), University 
Hospital Erlangen; Department of Neurology and Neurophysiology (H.F), University 
Hospital Freiburg; Department of Neurology (N.M., A.D.), University Hospital 
Münster; Department of Neurology (H.P., L.-T.L), Charité University Medicine 
Berlin; Department of Neurology (K.F.), Bezirksklinikum Regensburg; 
Neuroimmunology Section (F.L., G.N.), Institute of Clinical Chemistry and 
Department of Neurology, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel; 
Department of Neurology (I.S.), University Hospital Giessen; Center for 
Neurology and Psychiatrics (C.D.), University Hospital Köln; Department of 
Neurology (J.B.), University Hospital Heidelberg; Department of Neurology 
(J.B.), Klinikum Kassel; Department of Neurology (J.L.), University Hospital 
Ulm; Institute of Clinical Neuroimmunology (F.T.), 
Ludwig-Maximillians-University München; Department of Neurology (A.K.), Martha 
Maria Hospital Halle; Department of Neurology (A.J.), Dortmund Hospital; 
Department of Neurology (M.R.), Medical Faculty, Heinrich Heine University 
Düsseldorf; Department of Neurology (K.-W.S.), University Hospital Hannover; 
Department of Neurology (C.U.), Hospital Ludwigshafen; Institute of Medical 
Statistics, Computer and Data Sciences (A.S), Jena University Hospital; and 
Center for Sepsis Control and Care (A.S., C.G.), Jena University Hospital, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To assess intensive care unit (ICU) complications, their management, 
and prognostic factors associated with outcomes in a cohort of patients with 
autoimmune encephalitis (AE).
METHODS: This study was an observational multicenter registry of consecutively 
included patients diagnosed with AE requiring Neuro-ICU treatment between 2004 
and 2016 from 18 tertiary hospitals. Logistic regression models explored the 
influence of complications, their management, and diagnostic findings on the 
dichotomized (0-3 vs 4-6) modified Rankin Scale score at hospital discharge.
RESULTS: Of 120 patients with AE (median age 43 years [interquartile range 
24-62]; 70 females), 101 developed disorders of consciousness, 54 autonomic 
disturbances, 42 status epilepticus, and 39 severe sepsis. Sixty-eight patients 
were mechanically ventilated, 85 patients had detectable neuronal 
autoantibodies, and 35 patients were seronegative. Worse neurologic outcome at 
hospital discharge was associated with necessity of mechanical ventilation (sex- 
and age-adjusted OR 6.28; 95% CI, 2.71-15.61) tracheostomy (adjusted OR 6.26; 
95% CI, 2.68-15.73), tumor (adjusted OR 3.73; 95% CI, 1.35-11.57), sepsis 
(adjusted OR 4.54; 95% CI, 1.99-10.43), or autonomic dysfunction (adjusted OR 
2.91; 95% CI, 1.24-7.3). No significant association was observed with 
autoantibody type, inflammatory changes in CSF, or pathologic MRI.
CONCLUSION: In patients with AE, mechanical ventilation, sepsis, and autonomic 
dysregulation appear to indicate longer or incomplete convalescence. Classic ICU 
complications better serve as prognostic markers than the individual subtype of 
AE. Increased awareness and effective management of these AE-related 
complications are warranted, and further prospective studies are needed to 
confirm our findings and to develop specific strategies for outcome improvement.

DOI: 10.1212/NXI.0000000000000514
PMCID: PMC6278855
PMID: 30568992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Acta Biomed. 2018 Dec 17;89(9-S):11-16. doi: 10.23750/abm.v89i9-S.7872.

Thyroid and celiac disease in pediatric age: a literature review.

Minelli R(1), Gaiani F, Kayali S, Di Mario F, Fornaroli F, Leandro G, Nouvenne 
A, Vincenzi F, De' Angelis GL.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Unit, Department of Medicine and Surgery, 
University of Parma, Parma, Italy. federica.gaiani@studenti.unipr.it.

Chronic autoimmune thyroid disease or Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT) and 
Graves-Basedow disease (GD) are the main autoimmune thyroid diseases in 
pediatric age. Both are characterized by the production of anti-thyroid 
antibodies, by an infiltration of autoreactive B and T lymphocytes into the 
thyroid parenchyma and by alterations in thyroid function (hyperthyroidism in 
GD, normal function or subclinical hypothyroidism in HT with possible evolution 
towards manifest hypothyroidism). Celiac disease (CD) is a systemic autoimmune 
disease caused by gluten ingestion in genetically predisposed subjects, its 
prevalence is around 1% in Western Countries. It presents with a pathognomonic 
enteropathy, a variety of clinical manifestations, positivity for specific 
antibodies, positivity for typical haplotypes HLA DQ2/DQ8. The clinical 
manifestations may vary among four types: typical, atypical, silent and latent. 
Diagnosis can be made in presence of specific histopathologic findings in 
duodenal biopsies and antibodies positivity. Celiac disease is associated to 
various endocrine autoimmunities such as thyropathies, diabetes mellitus type 1, 
Addison disease, multiendocrine syndromes. The most frequent associated 
thyropaties are HT and GD. The present review aims to explore the associations 
between thyropathies and celiac disease in pediatric age.

DOI: 10.23750/abm.v89i9-S.7872
PMCID: PMC6502193
PMID: 30561390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Mult Scler Relat Disord. 2019 Feb;28:31-33. doi: 10.1016/j.msard.2018.12.004.
 Epub 2018 Dec 3.

Autoimmune encephalitis following alemtuzumab treatment of multiple sclerosis.

Giarola B(1), Massey J(2), Barnett Y(3), Rodrigues M(4), Sutton I(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, St Vincent's Hospital, 390 Victoria St, 
Darlinghurst, Sydney, NSW 2010, Australia. Electronic address: 
blakegiarola@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, St Vincent's Hospital, 390 Victoria St, 
Darlinghurst, Sydney, NSW 2010, Australia. Electronic address: 
jennifer.massey@svha.org.au.
(3)Department of Radiology, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(4)Department of Pathology, St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(5)Department of Neurology, St Vincent's Hospital, 390 Victoria St, 
Darlinghurst, Sydney, NSW 2010, Australia.

Secondary autoimmune disorders are a recognised complication of alemtuzumab 
treatment for multiple sclerosis. We report a case of autoimmune encephalitis 
manifesting as a polymorphic epilepsia partialis continua / status epilepticus 
seven months after the second course of alemtuzumab in a patient with previous 
autoimmune hypothyroidism and immune thrombocytopenic purpura. An MRI revealed 
multifocal cortical abnormalities and neuronal loss was evident on biopsy. 
Although testing for anti-neuronal antibodies was negative, the patient 
responded well to immunotherapy including plasma exchange. This is the first 
reported presentation of an autoimmune encephalopathy secondary to alemtuzumab 
therapy.

Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.msard.2018.12.004
PMID: 30553166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Front Immunol. 2018 Nov 22;9:2708. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02708. eCollection
 2018.

Management of Autoimmune Encephalitis: An Observational Monocentric Study of 38 
Patients.

Macher S(1), Zimprich F(1), De Simoni D(2), Höftberger R(2), Rommer PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(2)Institute of Neurology, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Over the last years the clinical picture of autoimmune encephalitis has gained 
importance in neurology. The broad field of symptoms and syndromes poses a great 
challenge in diagnosis for clinicians. Early diagnosis and the initiation of the 
appropriate treatment is the most relevant step in the management of the 
patients. Over the last years advances in neuroimmunology have elucidated 
pathophysiological basis and improved treatment concepts. In this monocentric 
study we compare demographics, diagnostics, treatment options and outcomes with 
knowledge from literature. We present 38 patients suffering from autoimmune 
encephalitis. Antibodies were detected against NMDAR and LGI1 in seven patients, 
against GAD in 6 patients) one patient had coexisting antibodies against GABAA 
and GABAB), against CASPR2, IGLON5, YO, Glycine in 3 patients, against Ma-2 in 2 
patients, against CV2 and AMPAR in 1 patient; two patients were diagnosed with 
hashimoto encephalitis with antibodies against TPO/TG. First, we compare 
baseline data of patients who were consecutively diagnosed with autoimmune 
encephalitis from a retrospective view. Further, we discuss when to stop 
immunosuppressive therapy since how long treatment should be performed after 
clinical stabilization or an acute relapse is still a matter of debate. Our 
experiences are comparable with data from literature. However, in contrary to 
other experts in the field we stop treatment and monitor patients very closely 
after tumor removal and after rehabilitation from first attack.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02708
PMCID: PMC6262885
PMID: 30524441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2018 Nov;22(22):7778-7787. doi: 
10.26355/eurrev_201811_16401.

Relationship between Hashimoto's thyroiditis and papillary thyroid carcinoma in 
children and adolescents.

Zeng R(1), Zhao M, Niu H, Yang KX, Shou T, Zhang GQ, Yan XM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, The First People's Hospital of Yunnan Province, 
Kunming, China. yxmin08@161.com.

OBJECTIVE: We investigated the relationship between Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) 
and papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) in children and adolescents.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We carried out a retrospective study of thyroidectomies 
performed from 2004 to 2017 at The First People's Hospital and the Tumor 
Hospital of Yunnan Province (Kunming, China). The occurrence and features of PTC 
and benign thyroid disease (BTD) in children and adolescents (age ≤ 20 years) 
were compared.
RESULTS: We evaluated 258 consecutive thyroidectomies. Among children and 
adolescents with PTC, 23 cases were histopathologically confirmed as HT. Mean 
tumor diameter was smaller in children and adolescents with PTC than in those 
with BTD. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) level was abnormally elevated in a 
greater proportion of children and adolescents with PTC as compared to those 
with BTD or youths with PTC. The proportion of thyroglobulin antibody (TGAb)- 
and thyroid peroxidase antibody (TpoAb)-positive children and adolescents was 
higher in the PTC than in the BTD group. Among children and adolescents with 
PTC, 23 had HT as compared to two in the BTD group. The proportion of 
children/adolescents with abnormally elevated TSH levels was higher for the PTC 
combined with HT group than for the PTC without HT group. A multivariate 
conditional logistic regression analysis showed that elevated TGAb was an 
independent risk factor for PTC in children and adolescents.
CONCLUSIONS: HT is associated with an increased occurrence of PTC in children 
and adolescents.

DOI: 10.26355/eurrev_201811_16401
PMID: 30536322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. J Endocrinol Invest. 2019 Jul;42(7):843-850. doi: 10.1007/s40618-018-0990-1. 
Epub 2018 Dec 8.

The MAGI2 gene polymorphism rs2160322 is associated with Graves' disease but not 
with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Jia X(1), Zhai T(2), Wang B(1), Zhang J(3), Zhang F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508 
Longhang Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai, 201508, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Zhongshan Hospital of Fudan 
University, No. 180 Fenglin Road, Xuhui District, Shanghai, 200032, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508 
Longhang Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai, 201508, China. 
zhangjinan@hotmail.com.
(4)Department of Emergency, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508 
Longhang Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai, 201508, China. jgyyzf@126.com.

PURPOSE: Autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs) are chronic organ-specific 
autoimmune disorders, predominantly including Graves' disease (GD), and 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). This study aimed to investigate whether 
single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in MAGI2 and MAGI3 gene contributed to 
the etiology of AITDs.
METHODS: We conducted a case-control study including 1001 patients with AITDs 
(625 GD, 376 HT) and 846 healthy controls. Subgroup analyses in GD and HT were 
also performed.
RESULTS: The genotypes of rs2160322 in MAGI2 showed a borderline association 
with AITDs (P = 0.048), and they had a strong correlation with GD (P = 0.012). 
The frequency of the minor allele G of rs2160322 was significantly higher in the 
GD patients than in the controls (P = 0.027; OR 1.91; 95% CI 1.020-1.391), 
especially for GD females (P = 0.008; OR 1.304; 95% CI 1.072-1.587), and those 
who had positive family history (P = 0.011; OR 1.412; 95% CI 1.083-1.843). For 
genetic model analysis, the recessive model and homozygous model of rs2160322 
showed significant associations with AITDs (P = 0.009; P = 0.019) and GD 
(P = 0.004; P = 0.005). Nevertheless, our study could not identify any 
relationship between these SNPs and HT. Due to the low mutation rate of 
rs1343126 in MAGI3, we were unable to obtain a credible conclusion on its 
association with AITDs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study identified that MAGI2 rs2160322 was strongly associated 
with GD susceptibility. The potential dysfunction of tight junction proteins and 
aberrant epithelial barrier caused by abnormal MAGI2 expression may be a novel 
mechanism of GD.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-018-0990-1
PMID: 30535759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2018;59(3):755-762.

Cerebrolysin increases motor recovery and decreases inflammation in a mouse 
model of autoimmune encephalitis.

Toader LE(1), Roşu GC, Cătălin B, Pirici I, Gîlceavă IC, Albu VC, 
Istrate-Ofiţeru AM, Mureşanu DF, Pirici D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Research Methodology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy of 
Craiova, Romania; nicola_camelia92@yahoo.com.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a complex chronic neurodegenerative disease that 
involves an abnormal autoimmune response directed against the brain, nerves and 
spinal cord; it is considered the most frequent cause of neurological 
disability, because MS-associated inflammatory lesions can affect a wide range 
of systems to a varying degree and may cause a plethora of neurological 
comorbidities and symptoms. The symptoms are quite variable from patient to 
patient and depend on the spatial distribution of the central nervous system 
(CNS) lesions, but usually involve sensory disturbances, cognitive deficits, 
unilateral vision loss, bladder dysfunction, ataxia, fatigue, double vision, 
weakness of the limbs and intestinal disorders. Experimental autoimmune 
encephalitis (EAE) mouse model reproduces the pathological features of the human 
disease, and is a widely used model used for studying the pathology and 
different treatment options in the preclinical stage. In this study, we aimed to 
evaluate the motor function, as well as the degree of demyelination and 
inflammatory changes in the brains of mice immunized for the myelin 
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG)35-55, and treated with Cerebrolysin. Animals 
were randomly assigned to one of the three groups: (i) EAE untreated group 
(n=10), (ii) EAE treated group (n=10), and (iii) control group (n=5), and their 
motor dysfunction was followed until the clinical pathology begun to improve. We 
also analyzed histologically and immunohistochemically the lesions in the 
optical nerves, cervical spinal cord and medulla. Our results showed higher 
deficit scores for untreated animals compared to treated animals. After 
harvesting the tissue, we have first evaluated the density of myelin in the 
optical nerves, cervical spinal cord and medulla and we found significant 
differences between treated and untreated groups of animals. We continued to 
investigate the structure of the CNS parenchyma by evaluating the intensity and 
morphology of the neuronal cytoskeleton and microglia by immunohistochemical 
stainings. Although larger animal groups are necessary, this is the first pilot 
study to investigate the use of a neurotrophic factor as a putative treatment 
option for a MS model.

PMID: 30534814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2019 Feb;45(2):471-480. doi: 
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.10.020. Epub 2018 Dec 8.

Sonographic Characteristics of Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma with Coexistent 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis: Conventional Ultrasound, Acoustic Radiation Force 
Impulse Imaging and Contrast-Enhanced Ultrasound.

Peng Q(1), Niu C(2), Zhang M(1), Peng Q(3), Chen S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasound Diagnosis, Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China.
(2)Department of Ultrasound Diagnosis, Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Changsha, Hunan, China. Electronic address: 
niuchengcheng@csu.edu.cn.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, Gansu, China.

Our objective was to provide the various sonographic characteristics of 
papillary thyroid carcinomas for Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) patients, 
including conventional ultrasound (US), acoustic radiation force impulse Virtual 
Touch imaging and quantification (ARFI-VTIQ) and contrast-enhanced ultrasound 
(CEUS). Sixty-nine HT patients with 85 thyroid nodules (TNs) (49 malignant and 
36 benign) were enrolled in this study. We evaluated the size, shape, margin, 
echogenicity, presence of halo, calcification, vascularity and ARFI-VTIQ and 
CEUS parameters for each nodule and compared the findings with the reference 
standards of histopathological and/or cytologic results. Univariate analysis 
indicated that compared with benign TNs with HT, papillary thyroid carcinomas 
with HT more often had taller-than-wider shapes, ill-defined margins, 
microcalcifications, peripheral vascularity, relatively harder stiffness with a 
higher shear wave speed, hypo-enhancement, peak intensity index <1 and area 
under the curve index <1 at pre-operative US, ARFI-VTIQ and CEUS. Multivariate 
analysis revealed that ill-defined margins, microcalcifications and peak 
intensity index <1 are independent characteristics related to malignant TNs for 
their differentiation from benign TNs (all p < 0.05). Our study indicated that 
pre-operative multiparameter US characteristics may serve as a useful tool to 
identify malignant TNs in HT patients.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.10.020
PMID: 30528690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2019 Apr;80(4):1006-1012. doi:
10.1016/j.jaad.2018.11.049.  Epub 2018 Dec 5.

Increased risk for incident thyroid diseases in people with psoriatic disease: A 
cohort study.

Wang SH(1), Wang J(2), Lin YS(3), Tung TH(4), Chi CC(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, New Taipei City, 
Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Applied Science and Engineering, College of 
Science and Engineering, Fu Jen Catholic University, New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)Institute of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, College of Public Health, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial 
Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan; Graduate Institute of Clinical Medical Sciences, 
College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Medical Research and Education, Cheng Hsin General Hospital, 
Taipei, Taiwan. Electronic address: ch2876@chgh.org.tw.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Linkou, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan; College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taoyuan, Taiwan. Electronic 
address: chingchi@cgmh.org.tw.

BACKGROUND: The association between psoriasis and thyroid diseases is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the risk for thyroid diseases among psoriasis patients.
METHODS: We used Taiwan's National Health Insurance Research Database to conduct 
a nationwide cohort study. We examined the adjusted hazard ratios (aHRs) and 95% 
confidence intervals (CIs) for incident thyroid diseases in relation to 
psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis.
RESULTS: We identified 13,266 patients with psoriatic arthritis (psoriatic 
arthritis group), 149,576 with psoriasis alone (psoriasis group), and 162,842 
nonpsoriasis controls. Compared with the nonpsoriasis controls, the psoriatic 
arthritis and psoriasis groups had increased risk for incident hyperthyroidism 
(aHR 1.32, 95% CI 1.07-1.65 [psoriatic arthritis]; aHR 1.22, 95% CI 1.11-1.33 
[psoriasis]) and Graves disease (aHR 1.38, 95% CI 1.07-1.79 [psoriatic 
arthritis]; aHR 1.26, 95% CI 1.13-1.41 [psoriasis]). Both groups also had 
increased risk for incident hypothyroidism (aHR 1.74, 95% CI 1.34-2.27 
[psoriatic arthritis]; aHR 1.38, 95% CI 1.23-1.56 [psoriasis]) and Hashimoto 
thyroiditis (aHR 2.09, 95% CI 1.34-3.24 [psoriatic arthritis]; aHR 1.47, 95% CI 
1.18-1.82 [psoriasis]).
LIMITATIONS: Lack of data on psoriasis severity.
CONCLUSION: People with psoriatic disease are associated with an increased 
incident thyroid diseases, including hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, 
thyroiditis, Graves disease, and Hashimoto thyroiditis. Endocrinology 
consultation may be considered when psoriasis patients present with thyroid 
symptoms.

Copyright © 2018 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2018.11.049
PMID: 30528501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2018 Dec 3;18(1):468. doi:
10.1186/s12884-018-2110-9.

Resistance to thyroid hormone β in autoimmune thyroid disease: a case report and 
review of literature.

Wu D(1), Guo R(1), Guo H(1), Li Y(1), Guan H(2), Shan Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The Endocrine Institute and The 
Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Hospital of 
China Medical University, 155 Nanjing Bei Street, Shenyang, Liaoning, 110001, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The Endocrine Institute and The 
Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Hospital of 
China Medical University, 155 Nanjing Bei Street, Shenyang, Liaoning, 110001, 
People's Republic of China. hxguan@vip.126.com.

BACKGROUND: Resistance to thyroid hormone beta (RTHβ) results in symptoms of 
both increased and decreased thyroid hormone action. The effect of thyroid 
hormone changes in different types of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) in RTHβ 
is dynamic.
CASE PRESENTATION: A 25-year-old Asian female had a RTHβ Y321C mutation with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis and type 2 diabetes mellitus. She was followed-up 
through gestation and two years postpartum, revealing development of postpartum 
thyroiditis (PPT) with characteristic wide fluctuations in serum thyrotropin 
levels, and of spontaneous recovery from an episode of transient hypothyroidism. 
The presence of RTHβ did not prolong thyroiditis duration nor progressed toward 
permanent hypothyroidism. Prenatal genetic analysis was not performed on the 
unaffected fetus, and did not result in congenital hypothyroidism, possibly 
because maternal free thyroxine (FT4) levels were mildly elevated at less than 
50% above the reference range in early gestation and gradually decreased to less 
than 20% after the 28th gestational week.
CONCLUSION: In RTHβ patients with autoimmune thyroid disease, episodes of 
thyroid dysfunction can significantly alter thyrotropin levels. During 
pregnancy, mildly elevated maternal free thyroxine levels less than 20% above 
the upper limit may not be harmful to unaffected fetuses. Unnecessary thyroid 
hormone control and fetal genetic testing was avoided during the gestational 
period with monthly follow-up.

DOI: 10.1186/s12884-018-2110-9
PMCID: PMC6288951
PMID: 30526530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AUTHORS’ INFORMATION: Not applicable. ETHICS 
APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This case report was approved by the Ethics 
Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University. Written 
consent was obtained from the patient for publication of study. CONSENT FOR 
PUBLICATION: The patient consented to the publication of this study, knowing 
that the manuscript may include potentially identifying information. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


46. Neurosci Lett. 2019 Feb 16;694:129-135. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2018.12.003.
Epub  2018 Dec 3.

Prediction of neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio in the diagnosis and progression of 
autoimmune encephalitis.

Zeng Z(1), Wang C(1), Wang B(1), Wang N(1), Yang Y(1), Guo S(1), Du Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital affiliated to Shandong 
University, Jing Wu Road, Huaiyin District, Jinan, 250021, Shandong, China.
(2)Department of Neurology, Shandong Provincial Hospital affiliated to Shandong 
University, Jing Wu Road, Huaiyin District, Jinan, 250021, Shandong, China. 
Electronic address: Duyifeng126@126.com.

OBJECTIVE: Autoimmune encephalitis (AIE) is a group of inflammatory disorders of 
the brain. The severity of AIE vary among individuals and it is always a 
challenge to predict. In this study, we measured the neutrophil-to-lymphocyte 
ratio (NLR), a novel potential biomarker of inflammatory status in other 
inflammatory diseases, in AIE patients and evaluated NLR as a biomarker for 
monitoring AIE progression.
METHODS: The study participants consisted of 34 newly diagnosed AIE patients and 
35 ages and sex-matched healthy controls. Demographic and clinical assessment 
data were reviewed and abstracted retrospectively. NLR levels were calculated 
from the peripheral blood tests. The relationship between mRS (the modified 
Ranking Scale) score and NLR levels, total white blood cells, absolute 
neutrophil counts and absolute lymphocyte counts were investigated. The 
performance of NLR in predicting severe AIE was also determined.
RESULTS: Peripheral NLR level in AIE patients were significantly higher than in 
healthy controls (p < 0.001). Additionally, median NLR level in patients with 
severe impairments (using modified Ranking Scale, mRS＞3) was significantly 
elevated (p < 0.001) compared to patients with mild to moderate impairments 
(mRS≤3). Spearman correlation analysis indicated that NLR and neutrophil counts 
were positively associated to mRS score (r = 0.595, p＜0.001 for NLR, and 
r = 0.392, p = 0.022 for neutrophil counts). While lymphocyte counts were 
negatively correlated with mRS score (r=-0.522, p = 0.002). Multivariate 
logistic regression analysis revealed that increased NLR value was an 
independent risk factor for severe AIE (OR: 2.171, 95% CI: 1.218-3.868, 
p = 0.009). Furthermore, according to the ROC curve, the best NLR cut-off value 
to predict severe disease activity of AIE was 4.82, with a sensitivity of 78% 
and specificity of 88%.
CONCLUSION: Our results suggest that NLR in peripheral blood may be a practical 
and reliable biomarker to monitor disease progression in patients with AIE.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2018.12.003
PMID: 30521947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. J Cell Biochem. 2019 Jun;120(6):9016-9022. doi: 10.1002/jcb.28173. Epub 2018
Dec  2.

Total circulating cell-free miRNA in plasma as a predictive biomarker of the 
thyroid diseases.

Caglar O(1), Cayir A(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Otorhinolaryngology-Head and Neck Department, Medicine Faculty, Canakkale 
Onsekiz Mart University, Turkey.
(2)Vocational Health College, Canakkale Onsekiz Mart University, Canakkale, 
Turkey.
(3)Human Nutrition Research Centre, Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle 
University, Newcastle Upon Tyne, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Thyroid cancer is a common endocrine cancer. Great progress has been 
made in resolving its molecular mechanisms in recent years. The molecular 
changes observed in thyroid cancer can be used as biomarkers for diagnostic, 
prognostic and therapeutic purposes. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are important components 
in biological and metabolic pathways, such as developmental stages, signal 
transduction, cell maintenance, and differentiation. Hence, their malfunctioning 
can expose humans to malignancies. miRNA expressions have been shown to be 
dysregulated in different tumor types, like thyroid cancer, and may cause tumor 
initiation and progression. In previous studies, only cancer has been studied, 
and miRNA has been detected from the tissues in all the studies performed. In 
this study, we have focused on thyroid diseases such as bening nodules and 
Hashimoto's disease, which might be the cause of thyroid cancer, and have 
carried out miRNA tests in the blood samples taken from the arms thyroid 
patients.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: The present study was conducted on the blood samples of 100 
thyroid patients. Of the 100 patients in our study, 33 consisted of patients 
with thyroiditis, while 37 patients were diagnosed with benign thyroid nodules 
and 30 patients had thyroid cancer. For the control group, 18 patients were 
included. The plasma samples were analyzed, and the total miRNA levels were 
determined.
RESULTS: We found that the ccf-miRNA amount of benign patients is significantly 
lower than that of the controls. Similarly, the miRNA amount in the controls is 
significantly higher than that of the thyroiditis (P = 0.06) and the malign 
groups miRNA (P = 0.084). Although the present study has a low number of 
patients, the plasma samples could be used as a source of circulating miRNAs. In 
addition, the total miRNA of thyroid diseases could be used as a biomarker for 
different types of thyroid diseases. We could suggest, for future study, that 
specific miRNAs in bodily fluid might show specific properties to be used as 
biomarkers of thyroid diseases.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcb.28173
PMID: 30506793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


48. Neurol India. 2018 Nov-Dec;66(6):1584-1589. doi: 10.4103/0028-3886.246277.

Immunotherapy in autoimmune encephalitis - A need for "presumptive" diagnosis 
and treatment.

Pradhan S(1), Das A(1), Mani VE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical 
Sciences, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

DOI: 10.4103/0028-3886.246277
PMID: 30504544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest


49. Pediatr Med Chir. 2018 Dec 5;40(2). doi: 10.4081/pmc.2018.179.

Hypoceruloplasminemia: an unusual biochemical finding in a girl with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis and severe hypothyroidism.

Valenzise M(1), Porcaro F(2), Zirilli G(3), De Luca F(4), Cinquegrani M(5), 
Aversa T(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Pathology of Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Messina. mvalenzise@unime.it.
(2)Respiratory Unit, Academic Department of Pediatrics, Bambino Gesù Children's 
Hospital, Rome. federica.porcaro@opbg.net.
(3)Department of Human Pathology of Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Messina. zirilli@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Human Pathology of Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Messina. filippo.deluca@unime.it.
(5)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Messina. mcinquegrani@unime.it.
(6)Department of Human Pathology of Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Messina. taversa@unime.it.

Clinical picture of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) may significantly vary in 
pediatric age, ranging from euthyroidism to subclinical hypothyroidism or 
hyperthyroidism; only rarely HT presentation may be characterized by a severe 
hypothyroidism also in pediatric age. Here we describe a 3-year-old Caucasian 
girl who was admitted to our Clinic due to pericardial effusion, muscle weakness 
and weight gain. At clinical examination, she presented with bradycardia, pale 
and round face, pseudohypertrophy of calf muscles and no pitting edema of the 
limbs. Routine blood investigations showed high serum aspartate and alanine 
aminotransferase levels, low serum ceruloplasmin without clinical signs of 
Wilson's disease, dyslipidemia. Thyroid function tests revealed a picture of 
severe hypothyroidism associated with HT. After the replacement treatment with 
L-T4, thyroid-stimulating hormone serum levels gradually decreased, with 
concomitant resolution of pericardial effusion and normalization of 
ceruloplasmin levels.

DOI: 10.4081/pmc.2018.179
PMID: 30514077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Turk J Pediatr. 2018;60(3):310-314. doi: 10.24953/turkjped.2018.03.012.

A case of steroid-resistance Hashimoto's encephalopathy presenting with 
sensorimotor polyneuropathy.

Emeksiz S(1), Kutlu NO(1), Alaçakır N(1), Çaksen H(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Critical Care, Necmettin Erbakan University, Meram 
Faculty of Medicine, Konya, Turkey.
(2)Division of Pediatric Neurology, Department of Pediatrics, Necmettin Erbakan 
University, Meram Faculty of Medicine, Konya, Turkey.

Emeksiz S, Kutlu NO, Alaçakır N, Çaksen H. A case of steroid-resistance 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy presenting with sensorimotor polyneuropathy. Turk J 
Pediatr 2018; 60: 310-314. Hashimoto`s encephalopathy (HE) is a rare, 
auto-immune disease characterized by symptoms of acute or subacute 
encephalopathy associated with increased anti-thyroid antibody levels. The 
course of most HE cases is relapsing and remitting, which is similar to that of 
vasculitis and stroke. Steroids are the first line treatment in HE. In steroid 
non-responders other immunomodulatory therapies or plasmapheresis could be 
applied. We report a case of steroid-resistance HE with sensorimotor 
polyneuropathy, as a rare presentation of this disorder. Our case showed that HE 
may present with sensorimotor polyneuropathy; therefore HE should be considered 
in the differential diagnoses of polyneuropathy.

DOI: 10.24953/turkjped.2018.03.012
PMID: 30511545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2018 Dec;19(4):355-362. doi:
10.1007/s11154-018-9476-x.

The protective effect of myo-inositol on human thyrocytes.

Ferrari SM(1), Elia G(1), Ragusa F(1), Paparo SR(1), Caruso C(1), Benvenga 
S(2)(3)(4), Fallahi P(5), Antonelli A(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, School 
of Medicine, Via Savi, 10, I-56126, Pisa, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Messina, Italy.
(3)Master Program on Childhood, Adolescent and Women's Endocrine Health, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(4)Interdepartmental Program of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Women's 
Endocrine Health, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Policlinico 'G. Martino', 
I-98125, Messina, Italy.
(5)Department of Translational Research and New Technologies in Medicine and 
Surgery, University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy.
(6)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, School 
of Medicine, Via Savi, 10, I-56126, Pisa, Italy. 
alessandro.antonelli@med.unipi.it.

Patients affected by autoimmune thyroiditis reached positive effects on indices 
of thyroid autoimmunity and/or thyroidal function, after following a treatment 
with selenomethionine (Se) alone, or Se in combination with Myo-inositol 
(Myo-Ins). Our purpose was to investigate if Myo-Ins alone, or a combination of 
Se + Myo-Ins, is effective in protecting thyroid cells from the effects given by 
cytokines, or hydrogen peroxide (H2O2). We assessed the interferon 
(IFN)-γ-inducible protein 10 (IP-10/CXCL10) secretion by stimulating primary 
thyrocytes (obtained from Hashimoto's thyroiditis or from control patients) with 
cytokines in presence/absence of H2O2. Our results confirm: 1) the toxic effect 
of H2O2 in primary thyrocytes that leads to an increase of the apoptosis, to a 
decrease of the proliferation, and to a slight reduction of cytokines-induced 
CXCL10 secretion; 2) the secretion of CXCL10 chemokine induced by IFN-γ + tumor 
necrosis factor alpha (TNF)-α has been decreased by Myo + Ins, both in presence 
or absence of H2O2; 3) no effect has been shown by the treatment with Se. 
Therefore, a protective effect of Myo-Ins on thyroid cells has been suggested by 
our data, which exact mechanisms are at the basis of this effect need to be 
furtherly investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-018-9476-x
PMID: 30511181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Mutagenesis. 2018 Dec 31;33(5-6):351-357. doi: 10.1093/mutage/gey037.

Apoptosis and genome instability in children with autoimmune diseases.

Mihaljevic O(1), Zivancevic-Simonovic S(1), Milosevic-Djordjevic O(2), 
Djurdjevic P(3), Jovanovic D(3), Todorovic Z(3), Grujicic D(4), 
Radovic-Jakovljevic M(4), Tubic J(4), Markovic A(4), Paunovic M(5), 
Stanojevic-Pirkovic M(6), Markovic S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathophysiology, University of Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(2)Department of Genetics, University of Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of 
Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(4)Department of Biology and Ecology, Faculty of Science, University of 
Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(5)Department of Surgery, University of Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(6)Department of Biochemistry, University of Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of 
Kragujevac, Kragujevac, Serbia.

As apoptosis and genome instability in children with autoimmune diseases (AIDs) 
are insufficiently investigated, we aimed to analyse them in peripheral blood 
lymphocytes (PBLs) of children and adolescents with Hashimoto's thyroiditis 
(HT), Graves' disease (GD) and type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM), including 
possible factors that could affect their occurrence. The study population 
included 24 patients and 19 healthy controls. Apoptotic cells were detected 
using an Annexin V-FITC/7-AAD kit. Genome instability was measured as 
micronuclei (MNs) frequency using the cytokinesis-block MN assay. In addition, 
comet assay was performed for determination of genome instability as genome 
damage index (GDI) in new subpopulation of patients with T1DM. The percentage of 
apoptotic PBLs in patients with AID was significantly lower than in control 
subjects. There was a positive correlation between thyroid-stimulating homone 
(TSH) concentration and the proportion of cells in late stage apoptosis in 
patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs). The MN frequency in patients 
was significantly higher than in controls. Individuals with HT or T1DM had a 
significantly higher MN frequency than those with GD. Similarly, the value of 
GDI in patients with T1DM was significantly higher than in controls. The level 
of apoptosis was positively correlated with MN frequency as well as with GDI in 
patients with AID. In conclusion, children with AITD (HT and GD) and T1DM have a 
significantly lower level of apoptosis in PBLs and significantly higher MN 
frequency as GDI than healthy subjects. Apoptosis and the level of genome 
instability in these patients with AID are positively correlated.

DOI: 10.1093/mutage/gey037
PMID: 30481337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. BMC Endocr Disord. 2018 Nov 26;18(1):87. doi: 10.1186/s12902-018-0314-7.

Low vitamin D levels are associated with cognitive impairment in patients with 
Hashimoto thyroiditis.

Xu J(1), Zhu XY(2), Sun H(2), Xu XQ(2), Xu SA(2), Suo Y(2), Cao LJ(2), Zhou 
Q(3), Yu HJ(2), Cao WZ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency, First Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, 
Jiaxing, Zhejiang Province, China. jiaxingxujun@163.com.
(2)Department of Emergency, First Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, 
Jiaxing, Zhejiang Province, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, First Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing University, 
Jiaxing, Zhejiang Province, China.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive impairment is commonly observed in patients with Hashimoto 
thyroiditis (HT). Low levels of vitamin D have been correlated with cognitive 
impairment in non-HT population. We examined the association of vitamin D levels 
with cognitive impairment in patients with HT.
METHODS: We recruited 194 patients with HT and 200 healthy volunteers. Levels of 
serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) were measured using a competitive 
protein-binding assay. Cognitive funtion was assessed using Montreal Cognitive 
Assessment score (MoCA). Subjects with a MoCA scores < 26 are considered as 
having mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Multivariate analysis was performed 
using logistic regression models.
RESULTS: Fifty-five HT patients (28.4%) were diagnosed as having MCI. Patients 
with MCI had significantly lower 25(OH)D levels when compared with patients 
without MCI (33.9 ± 6.2 vs. 44.3 ± 9.6 nmol/L, P < 0.001). Significant 
differences in 25(OH)D quartiles of HT patients were observed between the 
patients with MCI and the patients without MCI (P < 0.001). In multivariate 
analyses, serum 25(OH)D levels (≤ 34.0 and ≥ 47.1 nmol/L) were significantly 
associated with cognitive impairment in patients with HT (OR 6.279, 95% CI 
2.673-14.834, P < 0.001; OR 0.061, 95% CI 0.008-0.491, P = 0.009, respectively).
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate an important association between serum 
vitamin D levels and cognitive impairment in patients with HT.

DOI: 10.1186/s12902-018-0314-7
PMCID: PMC6260768
PMID: 30477467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: 
Written informed consents were obtained from all subjects and the study was 
approved by the Ethics Committee of the First Affiliated Hospital of Jiaxing 
University. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interest. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer 
Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps 
and institutional affiliations.


54. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2018 Dec;19(4):301-309. doi:
10.1007/s11154-018-9474-z.

The increasing prevalence of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis in papillary 
microcarcinoma.

Vita R(1), Ieni A(2), Tuccari G(2), Benvenga S(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Viale Gazzi, 98125, Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Human Pathology of Adult and Evolutive Age "Gaetano 
Barresi"-Section of Pathological Anatomy, University of Messina, Viale Gazzi, 
98125, Messina, Italy.
(3)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Viale Gazzi, 98125, Messina, Italy. s.benvenga@live.it.
(4)Master Program on Childhood, Adolescent and Women's Endocrine Health, 
University of Messina, Viale Gazzi, 98125, Messina, Italy. s.benvenga@live.it.
(5)Interdepartmental Program of Molecular & Clinical Endocrinology and Women's 
Endocrine Health, University Hospital, A.O.U. Policlinico G. Martino, Viale 
Gazzi, 98125, Messina, Italy. s.benvenga@live.it.

Although the incidence of some malignancy has decreased over the recent years, 
this is not the case of papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (PTMC), whose incidence 
has increased worldwide. Most PTMC are found incidentally after histological 
examination of specimens from surgery for benign thyroid disease. Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis, whose incidence has also increased, coexists in about one in three 
PTMC patients. Three different mechanisms have been proposed to clarify the 
association between chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis and PTMC, namely tumor 
development/growth by: (i) TSH stimulation, (ii) expression of certain 
proto-oncogenes, (iii) chemokines and other molecules produced by the 
lymphocytic infiltrate. Whether Hashimoto's thyroiditis protects against lymph 
node metastasis is debated. Overall, autommune thyroiditis seems to contribute 
to the favorable prognosis of PTMC. Major limitations of the studies so far 
performed include: (i) retrospective design, (ii) limited statistical power, 
(iii) high risk of selection bias, (iv) and predominant Asian ethnicity of 
patients. Full genetic profiling of both diseases and identification of 
environmental factors capable to trigger them, as well as well-powered 
prospective studies on different ethnical groups, may help understand their 
causal association and why their frequencies are continuing raising.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-018-9474-z
PMID: 30456477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Front Immunol. 2018 Nov 5;9:2568. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02568. eCollection 
2018.

Encephalitis Associated to Metabotropic Glutamate Receptor 5 (mGluR5) Antibodies 
in Cerebrospinal Fluid.

Guevara C(1), Farias G(1), Silva-Rosas C(1), Alarcon P(1), Abudinen G(1), 
Espinoza J(1), Caro A(1), Angus-Leppan H(2)(3)(4), de Grazia J(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Universidad de Chile, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Clinical Neurosciences, Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust, London, 
United Kingdom.
(3)Institute of Neurology, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Centre for Research in Public Health and Community Care, University of 
Hertfordshire, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom.

A 68-years-old Hispanic man, complained of night sweats, low grade fewer, 
unexplained weight loss, and memory problems over 3 months. Abdominal tomography 
showed multiple intra-abdominal adenopathy and biopsy confirmed classic 
Hodgkin's lymphoma. He commenced treatment with chemotherapy. Three months 
later, he had acute onset of inattention, auditory hallucinations and 
alterations of anterograde memory. The patient developed psychomotor agitation, 
unresponsive to a combination of neuroleptics and benzodiazepines. Brain MRI 
showed a small established cerebellar infarction. Electroencephalogram was 
normal. Tests for toxic metabolic encephalopathy were negative. One oligoclonal 
IgG bands was found in the Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), which was not observed in 
corresponding serum, but cell count and protein were normal. Extensive testing 
for infectious encephalitis was unremarkable. CSF testing for commercially 
available neural and non-neural autoantibodies was negative. The patient 
fulfilled the Gultekin diagnostic criteria for paraneoplastic limbic 
encephalitis and methylprednisolone IV 1g/d for 5 days was given. He recovered 
rapidly, with progressive improvement in memory and psychomotor agitation. After 
treatment commenced, results for antibodies to mGluR5 in CSF taken prior to 
treatment were returned as positive. mGluR5 is found on post-synaptic terminals 
of neurons and microglia and is expressed primarily in the hippocampus and 
amygdala. This case highlights the difficulties in diagnosing this type of 
encephalitis: the CSF did not show pleocytosis, the MRI showed only chronic 
change and the electroencephalogram was normal. The dramatic recovery after 
methylprednisolone help to better characterized the clinical spectrum of 
auto-immune encephalitis. Diagnosing anti mGlutR5 encephalitis may lead to 
potentially highly effective treatment option and may anticipate the diagnostic 
of a cancer. A high index of suspicion is needed to avoid missed diagnosis. In 
patients with unexplained encephalitis, testing for antibodies to mGluR5 in CSF 
and serum should be considered. When there is a reasonable index of suspicion of 
auto-immune encephalitis, treatment should not be delayed for the antibody 
results.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.02568
PMCID: PMC6230718
PMID: 30455705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. J Clin Neurosci. 2019 Jan;59:185-189. doi: 10.1016/j.jocn.2018.10.076. Epub
2018  Nov 16.

Proportion and spectrum of movement disorders in adolescent and adult patients 
of autoimmune encephalitis of non-neoplastic aetiology.

Dash D(1), Ihtisham K(1), Tripathi M(2), Tripathi M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi 
110029, India.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi 110029, India.
(3)Department of Neurology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi 
110029, India. Electronic address: manjaritaiims@gmail.com.

We aimed to study the proportion of patients with movement disorders in 
seropositive autoimmune encephalitis of non-neoplastic aetiology and also to 
describe the spectrum of movement disorders in them. We prospectively screened 
362 patients of age >12 years with encephalitis of unknown aetiology for a panel 
of antibodies for autoimmune encephalitis. Demographic and clinical 
characteristics with focus on the movement disorders were recorded. We also 
evaluated the differences in the spectrum of movement disorder based on various 
age groups and antibody positivity. Patients were treated with immune modulating 
drugs and were followed up for 6 months. Out of the 41 patients, 21 (51.2%) 
patients presented with movement disorder as a part of their clinical 
presentation. The commonest movement disorder encountered in our cohort was 
orofaciolingual dyskinesia (OFLD) 57.1% followed by tremor (38.1%), 
choreoathetosis (33.3%), paroxysmal dyskinesia (23.8%) stereotypies (14.3%), 
bradykinesia (13.1%), followed by dystonia (13.1%), catatonia (4.7%), 
neuromyotonia (4.7%) ballism (4.7%), ataxia (4.7%) and stiff person phenotype 
(4.7%). The hyperkinetic movement disorders were more commonly seen compared to 
hypokinetic disorders. All patients received immunomodulatory therapy. On 
follow, 17 (80.1%) patients had good response with total remission of the 
movement disorder. Four patients did not have total remission but significant 
improvement in the symptoms after 6 months of follow up. Our study shows that 
>50% of patients with antibody positive autoimmune encephalitis have movement 
disorder as a part of their clinical feature. Timely institution of 
immunotherapy leads to good outcome in majority of patients.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jocn.2018.10.076
PMID: 30455136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Medwave. 2018 Oct 22;18(6):e7298. doi: 10.5867/medwave.2018.06.7298.

Current knowledge on Hashimoto's encephalopathy: a literature review.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Pinedo-Torres I(1), Paz-Ibarra JL(2).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Endocrinología, Hospital Nacional Daniel Alcides Carrión, 
Callao, Perú. Address: Avenida del pacífico 180, Torre 14, Departamento 704, 
Condominios Parques de la Huaca, San Miguel, Lima, Perú. Email: 
isabel_pt_5@hotmail.com.
(2)Departamento de Endocrinología, Hospital Nacional Edgardo Rebagliati Martins, 
EsSalud, Lima, Perú.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy is a rare disease, with a reported prevalence of 2.1 
per 100 000. Clinical manifestations include confusion, decreased state of 
consciousness, cognitive deficit, seizures, myoclonus, ataxia, and focal 
neurological deficits. Due to the wide variety of signs and symptoms, clinical 
diagnostic suspicion is essential. Diagnosis is based on three pillars: the 
presence of neurological clinical manifestations after ruling out other causes 
of encephalopathy. 2) Presence of increased antithyroid antibodies. 3) 
Significant clinical improvement after the administration of immunomodulation. 
The treatment of Hashimoto's encephalopathy pursues two objectives: to control 
the autoimmune process and to control the complications of the disease. Although 
in most cases recovery is complete with treatment, the risk of relapse can range 
from 12.5 to 40% in follow-ups to 2 years.

Publisher: La encefalopatía de Hashimoto es una enfermedad rara. Se reporta una 
prevalencia de 2,1 por cada 100 000 habitantes. Entre las manifestaciones 
clínicas se describen confusión, disminución del estado de consciencia, déficit 
cognitivo, convulsiones, mioclonus, ataxia y/o déficits neurológicos focales. 
Debido a la amplia variedad de signos y síntomas, la sospecha clínica 
diagnóstica es fundamental. El diagnóstico se basa en tres pilares: la presencia 
de manifestaciones clínicas neurológicas, con la exclusión de otras causas de 
encefalopatía; presencia de anticuerpos antitiroideos aumentados; una mejoría 
clínica notable luego de la administración de inmunomoduladores. El tratamiento 
de la encefalopatía de Hashimoto tiene dos objetivos: controlar el proceso 
autoinmune y controlar las complicaciones de la enfermedad. Aunque en la mayoría 
de los casos la recuperación es completa con el tratamiento, el riesgo de 
recaídas puede oscilar entre 12,5 a 40% en seguimientos a dos años.

DOI: 10.5867/medwave.2018.06.7298
PMID: 30451215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Intern Med. 2019 Apr 1;58(7):1007-1009. doi:
10.2169/internalmedicine.1846-18.  Epub 2018 Nov 19.

Autoimmune Encephalitis as an Extra-articular Manifestation of Rheumatoid 
Arthritis.

Kitamura E(1), Kondo Y(1), Kanazawa N(1), Akutsu T(1), Nishiyama K(1), Iizuka 
T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Kitasato University School of Medicine, Japan.

Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) is an immune-mediated encephalitis characterized by 
the subacute onset of memory deficits, altered mental status, or psychiatric 
symptoms. Limbic encephalitis associated with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) has not 
been reported yet. A 57-year-old man presented with the subacute onset of 
headache, depression, and anorexia 7 months before the onset of RA. Brain 
magnetic resonance imaging showed symmetric parenchymal lesions involving the 
medial temporal lobes. He was diagnosed with RA and AE, but no autoantibodies to 
neuronal intracellular or cell-surface antigens were identified in either the 
serum or cerebrospinal fluid. His symptoms improved with immunotherapy. AE can 
develop as an extra-articular manifestation of RA.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.1846-18
PMCID: PMC6478993
PMID: 30449780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author's disclosure of potential Conflicts of 
Interest (COI). Kazutoshi Nishiyama: Research funding, Nippon Boehringer 
Ingelheim, Daiichi Sankyo, Astellas Pharma, Otsuka Pharmaceutical, Kyorin 
Pharmaceutical, Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma, Teijin Pharma, Nihon Pharmaceutical, 
Pfize, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Japan Blood Products Organization, MSD and Nihon 
Medi-Physics.


59. J Neurol Sci. 2019 Jan 15;396:102-107. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2018.10.026. Epub
2018  Oct 30.

Factors underlying the development of chronic temporal lobe epilepsy in 
autoimmune encephalitis.

Casciato S(1), Morano A(2), Fattouch J(2), Fanella M(2), Avorio F(2), Albini 
M(2), Basili LM(2), Cerulli Irelli E(2), Viganò A(2), De Risi M(1), Grammaldo 
LG(1), D'Aniello A(1), Mascia A(1), Manfredi M(2), Quarato P(1), Giallonardo 
AT(2), Di Gennaro G(1), Di Bonaventura C(3).

Author information:
(1)IRCCS "NEUROMED", Pozzilli (IS), Italy.
(2)Epilepsy Unit, Department of Neurosciences/Mental Health, "Sapienza" 
University, Rome, Italy.
(3)Epilepsy Unit, Department of Neurosciences/Mental Health, "Sapienza" 
University, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: c_dibonaventura@yahoo.it.

PURPOSE: Limbic encephalitis (LE) is an autoimmune condition characterized by 
amnestic syndrome, psychiatric features and seizures. Early diagnosis and prompt 
treatment are crucial to avoid long-term sequelae, including psycho-cognitive 
deficits and persisting seizures. The aim of our study was to analyze the 
characteristics of 33 LE patients in order to identify possible prognostic 
factors associated with the development of chronic epilepsy.
METHODS: This is a retrospective cohort study including adult patients diagnosed 
with LE in the period 2010-2017 and followed up for ≥12 months. Demographics, 
seizure semiology, EEG pattern, MRI features, CSF/serum findings were reviewed.
RESULTS: All 33 LE patients (19 M/14F, mean age 61.2 years) presented seizures. 
Thirty subjects had memory deficits; 22 presented behavioural/mood disorders. 
Serum and/or CSF auto-antibodies were detected in 12 patients. In 31 subjects 
brain MRI at onset showed typical alterations involving temporal lobes. All 
patients received immunotherapy. At follow-up, 13/33 had developed chronic 
epilepsy; predisposing factors included delay in diagnosis (p = .009), low 
seizure frequency at onset (p = .02), absence of amnestic syndrome (p = .02) and 
absence/rarity of inter-ictal epileptic discharges on EEG (p = .06).
CONCLUSIONS: LE with paucisymptomatic electro-clinical presentation seemed to be 
associated to chronic epilepsy more than LE presenting with definite and severe 
"limbic syndrome".

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2018.10.026
PMID: 30447604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. PLoS One. 2018 Nov 15;13(11):e0205507. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0205507. 
eCollection 2018.

Diagnostic accuracy of computed tomography for differentiating diffuse thyroid 
disease from normal thyroid parenchyma: A multicenter study.

Baek HJ(1), Kim DW(2), Lee YJ(2), Choo HJ(2), Ahn HS(3), Lim HK(4), Ryu JH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Gyeongsang National University School of Medicine 
and Gyeongsang National University Changwon Hospital, Changwon, South Korea.
(2)Department of Radiology, Busan Paik Hospital, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan, South Korea.
(3)Department of Radiology, Chung-Ang University Hospital, Chung-Ang University 
College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(4)Department of Radiology, Soonchunhyang University Seoul Hospital, 
Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine, Seoul, South Korea.
(5)Department of Radiology, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Inje University College of 
Medicine, Busan, South Korea.

This study aimed to assess the diagnostic performance of computed tomography 
(CT) for differentiating diffuse thyroid disease (DTD) from normal thyroid 
parenchyma (NTP) using multicenter data. Between January 2016 and June 2016, 229 
patients underwent preoperative neck CT and subsequent thyroid surgery at five 
participating institutions. The neck CT images of each patient were 
retrospectively reviewed and classified into the following four categories: no 
DTD, indeterminate, suspicious for DTD, and DTD. The results of the CT image 
evaluations were compared with the histopathological results to determine the 
diagnostic accuracy of CT at each institution. According to the 
histopathological results, there were NTP (n = 151), Hashimoto thyroiditis (n = 
24), non-Hashimoto lymphocytic thyroiditis (n = 47), and diffuse hyperplasia (n 
= 7). The CT categories of the 229 patients were "no DTD" in 89 patients, 
"indeterminate" in 40 patients, "suspicious for DTD" in 42 patients, and "DTD" 
in 58 patients. The presence of two or more CT features of DTD, which was 
classified as "suspicious for DTD" by all radiologists, had the largest area 
under the receiver-operating characteristic curve (Az = 0.820; 95% confidence 
interval: 0.764, 0.868), with sensitivity of 85.9% and specificity of 78.2%. 
However, no statistical significance between readers' experience and their 
diagnostic accuracy was found. In conclusion, evaluations of CT images are 
helpful for differentiating DTD from NTP.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0205507
PMCID: PMC6237331
PMID: 30439946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests.61. Chin Med J (Engl). 2018 Nov 20;131(22):2747-2748. doi:
10.4103/0366-6999.245276.

A Case of Podocytic Infolding Glomerulopathy with Primary Sjögren's Syndrome and 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Fang JY(1), Song AH(1), Shen B(1), Liu YL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Shanghai Ninth People's Hospital, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai 200011, China.

DOI: 10.4103/0366-6999.245276
PMCID: PMC6247595
PMID: 30425203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest


62. J Neurol. 2019 Jan;266(1):124-132. doi: 10.1007/s00415-018-9105-3. Epub 2018
Nov  12.

Admission diagnoses of patients later diagnosed with autoimmune encephalitis.

Baumgartner A(1)(2), Rauer S(3), Hottenrott T(3), Leypoldt F(4), Ufer F(5), 
Hegen H(6), Prüss H(7), Lewerenz J(8), Deisenhammer F(6), Stich O(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Medical Center, University of Freiburg, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. 
annette.baumgartner@uniklinik-freiburg.de.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Medical Center, University of 
Freiburg, Faculty of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany. 
annette.baumgartner@uniklinik-freiburg.de.
(3)Department of Neurology, Medical Center, University of Freiburg, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(4)Institute of Laboratory Medicine and Department of Neurology, University 
Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Kiel, Germany.
(5)Department of Neurology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(6)Clinical Department of Neurology, Medical University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, 
Austria.
(7)Department of Neurology, Charité University Medicine Berlin and German Center 
for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Berlin, Germany.
(8)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Ulm, Germany.
(9)Medical Care Center, Neurology, Konstanz, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Since the detection of autoantibodies against neuronal surface 
antigens, autoimmune encephalitis (AE) has been more frequently diagnosed, 
especially in patients with symptoms typical of limbic encephalitis, such as 
seizures, short-term memory deficits, or psychosis. However, the clinical 
spectrum of AE may be much wider, making correct clinical diagnosis difficult.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed symptoms and admission diagnoses at first 
clinical presentation in 50 AE patients. We included patients with a clinical 
diagnosis of AE for whom a FDG-PET imaging was available. Final diagnoses were 
re-evaluated by a blinded investigator according to the most recent consensus 
suggestions published in 2016 for AE diagnostic criteria. We additionally 
describe two patients with Morvan syndrome who showed CASPR2 antibodies.
RESULTS: In 40 patients (80.0%), the clinical presentation at first admission 
was typical for AE. Ten patients (20.0%) initially suffered from atypical 
symptoms; among these patients, isolated headache and cerebellar dysfunction 
were most frequent (three patients each). However, an initial diagnosis of 
suspected encephalitis was only reached in 16 patients (32.0%), nine (18.0) of 
which were suspected to have infectious encephalitis, and seven (14.0%) patients 
were suspected to have AE. In 34 patients (68.0%), a diagnosis other than 
encephalitis was considered, (e.g., epilepsy, psychiatric diseases, transient 
ischemic attack, dementia, meningitis, and cerebellitis).
CONCLUSIONS: These data show the broad spectrum of initial symptoms of AE; the 
correct initial diagnosis of AE is often missed or delayed. Hence, clinicians in 
neurological and psychiatric hospitals should consider AE in the differential 
diagnosis of cases with atypical clinical presentations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-018-9105-3
PMID: 30421340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Curr Oncol Rep. 2018 Nov 10;20(11):92. doi: 10.1007/s11912-018-0721-y.

Updates in the Diagnosis and Treatment of Paraneoplastic Neurologic Syndromes.

Grativvol RS(1), Cavalcante WCP(1), Castro LHM(1), Nitrini R(1), Simabukuro 
MM(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Division, Hospital das Clínicas, University of São Paulo School of 
Medicine, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Neurology Division, Hospital das Clínicas, University of São Paulo School of 
Medicine, Sao Paulo, Brazil. mateus.simabukuro@hc.fm.usp.br.
(3)The State of São Paulo Cancer Institute, Sao Paulo, Brazil. 
mateus.simabukuro@hc.fm.usp.br.

The disorders of the central nervous system associated with cancer by remote 
immune-mediated mechanisms are a heterogeneous group. These disorders encompass 
the classic paraneoplastic disorders and the recently recognized autoimmune 
encephalitis associated with antibodies against neuronal cell surface or 
synaptic proteins that occur with or without cancer association. In the last 
decade, the new surge of interest in neuronal diseases associated with 
anti-neuronal antibodies led to the rapid discovery of new forms of disease that 
have different manifestations and were not previously suspected to be immune 
mediated. The recognition of these syndromes is important because it may lead to 
early detection of an underlying malignancy and prompt initiation of treatment, 
improving chances for a better outcome.

DOI: 10.1007/s11912-018-0721-y
PMID: 30415318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Nov 8;2018:bcr2018226503. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2018-226503.

Polyglandular endocrine emergency: lessons from a patient, which a book cannot 
teach.

Ahmad S(1), Giannopoulou A(2), Owen P(2), Kalhan A(2).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes and Endocrinology, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK.
(2)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Royal Glamorgan Hospital, 
Llantrisant, UK.

A 30-year-old woman with polyglandular autoimmune type 2 syndrome was found 
collapsed at home with a cardiac arrest, which required direct current 
cardioversion. On admission, she was hypothermic, hypotensive and bradycardic. 
Initial biochemical investigations were consistent with a pre-renal acute kidney 
injury, metabolic acidosis and a possible sepsis. She had significantly elevated 
thyroid-stimulating hormone levels on admission with the clinical profile 
consistent with dual Addisonian and myxoedema crisis. She received intravenous 
liothyronine and hydrocortisone along with supportive therapy. Echo showed 
severe left ventricular impairment with apical ballooning although coronary 
angiogram disclosed nothing abnormal. She made a gradual recovery and was 
discharged home after 2 weeks. She was diagnosed to have primary autoimmune 
hypothyroidism, Addison's diseaseand type 1 diabetes and coeliac disease in 
October 2006, July 2007, May 2010 and September 2016, respectively. Her 
inability to stick to gluten-free diet at her workplace was considered a 
significant contributory factor for out-of-hospital cardiac arrest.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2018. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-226503
PMCID: PMC6229218
PMID: 30413457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


65. BMC Endocr Disord. 2018 Nov 1;18(1):76. doi: 10.1186/s12902-018-0305-8.

Novel missense mutation in PTPN22 in a Chinese pedigree with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Gong L(1), Liu B(2)(3), Wang J(4), Pan H(3), Qi A(2)(3), Zhang S(2)(3), Wu J(1), 
Yang P(5), Wang B(6)(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, China Japan Union Hospital of Jilin University, 
Chang Chun, Jilin, 130000, China.
(2)Graduate School of Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.
(3)Center for Genetics, National Research Institute of Family Planning, Beijing, 
China.
(4)Department of Medical Genetics and Developmental Biology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China.
(5)Department of Cardiology, China Japan Union Hospital of Jilin University, 
Chang Chun, Jilin, 130000, China. pyang@jlu.edu.cn.
(6)Center for Genetics, National Research Institute of Family Planning, Beijing, 
China. wbbahu@163.com.
(7)Department of Medical Genetics and Developmental Biology, School of Basic 
Medical Sciences, Capital Medical University, Beijing, China. wbbahu@163.com.
(8)National Research Institute for Family Planning, 12 Dahuisi Road, Haidian, 
Beijing, 100081, China. wbbahu@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a complex autoimmune thyroid disease, the 
onset of which is associated with environmental exposures and specific 
susceptibility genes. Its incidence in females is higher than its incidence in 
males. Thus far, although some susceptibility loci have been elaborated, 
including PTPN22, FOXP3, and CD25, the aetiology and pathogenesis of Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis remains unclear.
METHODS: Four affected members from a Chinese family with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis were selected for whole-exome sequencing. Missense, nonsense, 
frameshift, or splicing-site variants shared by all affected members were 
identified after frequency filtering against public and internal exome 
databases. Segregation analysis was performed by Sanger sequencing among all 
members with available DNA.
RESULTS: We identified a missense mutation in PTPN22 (NM_015967.5; c. 77A > G; 
p.Asn26Ser) using whole-exome sequencing. PTPN22 is a known susceptibility gene 
associated with increased risks of multiple autoimmune diseases. Cosegregation 
analysis confirmed that all patients in this family, all of whom were female, 
carried the mutation. All public and private databases showed that the missense 
mutation was extremely rare.
CONCLUSIONS: We found a missense mutation in PTPN22 in a Chinese HT pedigree 
using whole-exome sequencing. Our study, for the first time, linked a rare 
variant of PTPN22 to Hashimoto's thyroiditis, providing further evidence of the 
disease-causing or susceptibility role of PTPN22 in autoimmune thyroid disease. 
Functional studies regarding the effects of this variant on thyroid autoimmunity 
and thyroid function are warranted.

DOI: 10.1186/s12902-018-0305-8
PMCID: PMC6211547
PMID: 30384852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: The 
research was approved by the ethical committees of China Japan Union Hospital of 
Jilin University. Written informed consent was obtained from all participants. 
CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Written informed consent was obtained from all study 
participants. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


66. Turk J Med Sci. 2018 Oct 31;48(5):993-998. doi: 10.3906/sag-1803-235.

Value of shear wave elastography by virtual touch tissue imaging quantification 
in patients with diffuse thyroid gland pathology.

Kural Rahatlı F, Turnaoğlu H, Kırnap NG, Turhan İyidir Ö, Haberal KM, Soudman A, 
Uslu N.

Background/aim: This study was performed to assess the diagnostic accuracy of 
shear wave elastography by virtual touch tissue imaging quantification in 
patients with diffuse thyroid gland pathology and to differentiate Graves' 
disease from Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Materials and methods: Thirty patients 
with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and 22 patients with Graves' disease were evaluated 
with conventional ultrasonography and shear wave elastography by virtual touch 
tissue imaging quantification. Thirty healthy participants formed the control 
group. Ten elastographic measurements of each thyroid lobe were performed in all 
three study groups. The mean shear wave velocity was calculated and compared 
between the patients and controls. Results: The mean shear wave velocity of the 
controls (1.92 ± 0.14 m/s) was significantly lower than that of the patients 
with Graves' disease (2.71 ± 0.22 m/s) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (2.50 ± 0.20 
m/s). Patients with Graves' disease had significantly higher shear wave 
velocities than those with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (P < 0.001). Conclusion: 
Shear wave elastography by virtual touch tissue imaging quantification can be 
used to discriminate a normal thyroid gland from diffuse thyroid gland pathology 
after conventional sonography and may assist in the diagnosis of Graves' disease 
and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

CC-BY 4.0

DOI: 10.3906/sag-1803-235
PMID: 30384566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2018;107(22):1187-1192. doi: 10.1024/1661-8157/a003078.

[CME: Thyrotoxicosis and Thyroiditis].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Slahor L(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Endokrinologie/Diabetologie, Luzerner Kantonsspital, Luzern.

Hyperthyroidism is caused by an increased synthesis of thyroid hormones or 
release of preformed thyroid hormones due to destruction of thyroid tissue, or 
there is an exogenous extrathyroidal source. The term thyroiditis describes a 
heterogeneous group of disorders, which result in destruction of thyroid tissue 
and release of preformed thyroid hormones. Although a less common condition, a 
thyroiditis remains an important differential diagnosis for thyrotoxicosis, and 
a symptomatic therapy is the cornerstone of treatment. Because of the classical 
triphasic clinical course a 'wait and see strategy' is reasonable, especially 
during the first and self-limited hyperthyroid phase. Usually a transient 
hypothyroid phase follows, before the euthyroid function is restored within a 
year. However, as permanent hypothyroidism may result, regular follow-up and in 
that case treatment with levothyroxine is mandatory.

Publisher: Zusammenfassung. Eine Hyperthyreose resultiert entweder aus 
Steigerung der Synthese und Sekretion von Schilddrüsenhormonen oder aus deren 
Freisetzung bei der Destruktion von Schilddrüsengewebe, wie auch durch 
übermässige exogene Levothyroxin-Gabe. Der Begriff «Thyreoiditis» umfasst eine 
heterogene Gruppe von Schilddrüsenentzündungen, die durch Parenchymdestruktion 
zur unregulierten Freisetzung von Schilddrüsenhormonen 
(«Freisetzungs-Hyperthyreose») führen. Diese seltenere Hyperthyreose-Ursache 
muss differenzialdiagnostisch erkannt werden, da primär eine symptomatische 
Therapie im Vordergrund steht. Bedingt durch die Pathophysiologie ist eine 
thyreostatische Therapie unwirksam. Der typische triphasische Verlauf der 
Funktionslage rechtfertigt ein exspektatives Vorgehen, insbesondere während der 
ersten selbstlimitierenden hyperthyreoten Phase. Nach der folgenden, meist 
passageren hypothyreoten Funktionslage wird innerhalb eines Jahres wieder eine 
euthyreote Funktionslage erreicht. Doch kann eine permanente Hypothyreose 
resultieren, was die Notwendigkeit regelmässiger Kontrollen verdeutlicht und bei 
Bedarf eine Levothyroxin-Therapie erfordert.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a003078
PMID: 30376773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Neuroinflammation. 2018 Oct 29;15(1):299. doi: 10.1186/s12974-018-1341-z.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis induces neuroinflammation and emotional alterations in 
euthyroid mice.

Cai YJ(1), Wang F(1), Chen ZX(1), Li L(1), Fan H(1), Wu ZB(1), Ge JF(2), Hu 
W(3), Wang QN(4), Zhu DF(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Anhui Geriatric Institute, the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Anhui Medical University, Hefei, 230032, China.
(2)Anhui Key Laboratory of Bioactivity of Natural Products, School of Pharmacy, 
Anhui Medical University, Hefei, 230032, China.
(3)Department of Pathology, Anhui Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Anhui 
Medical University, Hefei, 230032, China.
(4)Department of Toxicology, School of Public Health, Anhui Medical University, 
Hefei, 230032, China. wqn@ahmu.edu.cn.
(5)Department of Endocrinology, Anhui Geriatric Institute, the First Affiliated 
Hospital of Anhui Medical University, Hefei, 230032, China. zdfa0168@sina.com.

BACKGROUND: Although studies have reported an increased risk for mood disorders 
in Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) patients even in the euthyroid state, the 
mechanisms involved remain unclear. Neuroinflammation may play a key role in the 
etiology of mood disorders in humans and behavioral disturbances in rodents. 
Therefore, this study established a euthyroid HT model in mice and investigated 
whether HT itself was capable of triggering neuroinflammation accompanied by 
emotional alterations.
METHODS: Experimental HT was induced by immunizing NOD mice with thyroglobulin 
and adjuvant twice. Four weeks after the last challenge, mice were tested for 
anxiety-like behavior in the open field and elevated plus maze tests and 
depression-like behavior in the forced swimming and tail suspension tests. Then, 
animals were sacrificed for thyroid-related parameter measure as well as 
detection of cellular and molecular events associated with neuroinflammation. 
The changes in components of central serotonin signaling were also investigated.
RESULTS: HT mice showed intrathyroidal monocyte infiltration and rising serum 
thyroid autoantibody levels accompanied by normal thyroid function, which 
defines euthyroid HT in humans. These mice displayed more anxiety- and 
depressive-like behaviors than controls. HT mice further showed microglia and 
astrocyte activation in the frontal cortex detected by immunohistochemistry, 
real-time RT-PCR, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). These observations 
were also accompanied by enhanced gene expression of proinflammatory cytokines 
IL-1β and TNF-α in the frontal cortex. Despite this inflammatory response, no 
signs of neuronal apoptosis were visible by the TUNEL staining and TEM in the 
frontal cortex of HT mice. Additionally, IDO1 and SERT, key 
serotonin-system-related genes activated by proinflammatory cytokines, were 
upregulated in HT mice, accompanied by reduced frontal cortex serotonin levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results are the first to suggest that HT induces 
neuroinflammation and alters related serotonin signaling in the euthyroid state, 
which may underlie the deleterious effects of HT itself on emotional function.

DOI: 10.1186/s12974-018-1341-z
PMCID: PMC6206655
PMID: 30373627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL: All animal experiments were 
reviewed and approved by the Committee on the Ethics of Animal Experiments of 
Anhui Medical University. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING 
INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no competing interests. 
PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional 
claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.


69. Pathol Oncol Res. 2019 Jul;25(3):1245-1251. doi: 10.1007/s12253-018-0511-8.
Epub  2018 Oct 26.

Predictive Factors of Lateral Lymph Node Metastasis in Papillary Thyroid 
Microcarcinoma.

Zhao W(1), Chen S(2), Hou X(2), Liao Q(2), Chen G(3), Zhao Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Central Laboratory, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of 
Medical Science & Peking Union Medical College, 1 Shuai Fu Yuan Hu Tong, 
Beijing, 100730, China.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Science & Peking Union Medical College, 1 Shuai Fu Yuan Hu 
Tong, Beijing, 100730, China.
(3)Department of General Surgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Science & Peking Union Medical College, 1 Shuai Fu Yuan Hu 
Tong, Beijing, 100730, China. pumchchenge@163.com.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Science & Peking Union Medical College, 1 Shuai Fu Yuan Hu 
Tong, Beijing, 100730, China. zhao8028@263.net.

This study was designed to determine the incidence and predictive factors for 
lateral lymph node metastasis (LNM) in patients with papillary thyroid 
microcarcinoma (PTMC). From January 2014 to July 2015, a retrospective review 
was conducted of 215 patients with PTMC who underwent total thyroidectomy and 
central lymph node dissection (LND) with lateral LND. Correlations of lateral 
LNM with clinicopathological features were examined using univariate analyses. 
Risk factors for lateral LNM were identified by multivariate analysis. Lateral 
LNM was observed in 163(75.8%) cases of 215 patients and often involved in level 
III (82.2%) and level IV (65.6%), with most found in two-levels (41.1%) and 
single-level (33.7%) models. Multivariate analyses showed that central LNM (odds 
ratio [OR]: 8.28, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 3.43-19.98, p < 0.001) and upper 
portion location (OR: 2.87 [CI: 1.34-6.09]; p = 0.007) were independent 
predictive factors for lateral LNM. The incidence of skip metastasis-Lateral LNM 
with central Lymph nodes negative-was 8.6% (14/163). Age ≥ 45 years old (OR: 
4.37 [CI: 1.14-16.66]; p = 0.031) and upper portion location (OR: 4.34 [CI: 
1.27-14.78]; p = 0.019) were independent risk factors for skip metastasis by 
multivariate analyses. Taken together, patients with PTMC with central LNM and 
tumor in the upper pole were more likely to present with lateral LNM. Even if 
there was no central LNM, patients with an age ≥ 45 years old and tumors in the 
upper portion of the thyroid should be evaluated carefully for possible lateral 
LNM.

DOI: 10.1007/s12253-018-0511-8
PMID: 30361912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Semin Immunopathol. 2019 Mar;41(2):177-188. doi: 10.1007/s00281-018-0723-8.
Epub  2018 Oct 25.

Sex differences in autoimmune disorders of the central nervous system.

Gold SM(1)(2), Willing A(1), Leypoldt F(3)(4), Paul F(5)(6), Friese MA(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis (INIMS), Center for 
Molecular Neurobiology Hamburg (ZMNH), University Medical Center Hamburg 
Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Cooperate 
Member of Freie Universität Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin 
Institute of Health, Campus Benjamin Franklin, Hindenburgdamm 30, 12203, Berlin, 
Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
(4)Neuroimmunology Section, Institute of Clinical Chemistry, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein Kiel/Lübeck, Kiel/Lübeck, Germany.
(5)NeuroCure Clinical Research Center, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, and Berlin Institute of Health, Charitéplatz 1, 
10117, Berlin, Germany.
(6)Experimental and Clinical Research Center, Max Delbrueck Center for Molecular 
Medicine and Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(7)Institute of Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis (INIMS), Center for 
Molecular Neurobiology Hamburg (ZMNH), University Medical Center Hamburg 
Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. manuel.friese@zmnh.uni-hamburg.de.

Stronger adaptive immune responses in females can be observed in different 
mammals, resulting in better control of infections compared to males. However, 
this presumably evolutionary difference likely also drives higher incidence of 
autoimmune diseases observed in humans. Here, we summarize sex differences in 
the most common autoimmune diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) and 
discuss recent advances in the understanding of possible underlying 
immunological and CNS intrinsic mechanisms. In multiple sclerosis (MS), the most 
common inflammatory disease of the CNS, but also in rarer conditions, such as 
neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders (NMOSD) or neuronal 
autoantibody-mediated autoimmune encephalitis (AE), sex is one of the top risk 
factors, with women being more often affected than men. Immunological mechanisms 
driving the sex bias in autoimmune CNS diseases are complex and include hormonal 
as well as genetic and epigenetic effects, which could also be exerted 
indirectly via modulation of the microbiome. Furthermore, CNS intrinsic 
differences could underlie the sex bias in autoimmunity by differential 
responses to injury. The strong effects of sex on incidence and possibly also 
activity and progression of autoimmune CNS disorders suggest that treatments 
need to be tailored to each sex to optimize efficacy. To date, however, due to a 
lack of systematic studies on treatment responses in males versus females, 
evidence in this area is still sparse. We argue that studies taking sex 
differences into account could pave the way for sex-specific and therefore 
personalized treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00281-018-0723-8
PMID: 30361800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Am J Med Sci. 2018 Oct;356(4):344-349. doi: 10.1016/j.amjms.2018.06.022. Epub
 2018 Jun 30.

Autoimmune Thyroid Disease in Patients with Systemic Lupus Erythematosus: A 
7-year Retrospective Study in China.

Wei S(1), Yang Z(1), Xie S(1), Peng X(1), Gong L(2), Zhao K(3), Zeng K(4), Lai 
K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, People's Republic of China.
(2)Experimental Animal Center, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Hematology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Dermatology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
npfkzk@163.com.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Nanfang Hospital, Southern Medical University, 
Guangzhou, Guangdong, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
lai_kuan@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The study was a retrospective case-controlled study. We aimed to 
determine the clinical and laboratory features of systemic lupus erythematosus 
(SLE) and compared the features of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) with those 
of SLE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included 38 patients with SLE with AITD 
(SLE-AITD) and 190 age- and gender-matched SLE patients. The distribution of 
sociodemographic and clinical factors was compared between the SLE-AITD and SLE 
groups using Chi-square tests for gender and t tests for others. Univariate and 
multivariate logistic regression models were used to identify factors associated 
with the prevalence of AITD among SLE patients.
RESULTS: In univariate analysis, malar rash, oral ulcers, serositis, 
anti-double-stranded DNA antibody positivity (anti-dsDNA+), anti-Sjögren's 
syndrome type A antibodies (SSA), anti-Sjögren's syndrome type B antibodies 
(SSB), low complement 3 (C3), and low complement 4 (C4) were significantly 
different between the SLE-AITD and SLE groups. There were no significant 
differences among other clinical or laboratory features. In multivariate 
analysis, serositis (adjusted odds ratio [AOR], 3.64; P = 0.00), anti-dsDNA+ 
(AOR, 0.30; P = 0.01) and low C3 (AOR, 0.30; P = 0.02) were all associated with 
SLE-AITD.
CONCLUSIONS: In our study, serositis was a risk factor for AITD, so we propose 
that AITD should be considered in lupus patients with serositis.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjms.2018.06.022
PMID: 30360802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Horm Metab Res. 2018 Dec;50(12):908-921. doi: 10.1055/a-0717-5514. Epub 2018
Oct  25.

Thyroid Peroxidase as an Autoantigen in Hashimoto's Disease: Structure, 
Function, and Antigenicity.

Williams DE(1), Le SN(1), Godlewska M(2), Hoke DE(1), Buckle AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Biomedicine Discovery 
Institute, Monash University, Clayton, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Center of Postgraduate 
Medical Education, Warsaw, Poland.

Human thyroid peroxidase (TPO), is an important enzyme responsible for the 
biosynthesis of thyroid hormones and is a major autoantigen in autoimmune 
thyroid diseases (AITDs) such as the destructive Hashimoto's thyroiditis. 
Although the structure of TPO has yet to be determined, its extracellular domain 
consists of three regions that exhibit a high degree of sequence similarity to 
domains of known three-dimensional structure: the myeloperoxidase (MPO)-like 
domain, complement control protein (CCP)-like domain, and epidermal growth 
factor (EGF)-like domain. Homology models of TPO can therefore be constructed, 
providing some structural context to its known function, as well as facilitating 
the mapping of regions that are responsible for its autoantigenicity. In this 
review, we highlight recent progress in this area, in particular how a molecular 
modelling approach has advanced the visualisation and interpretation of epitope 
mapping studies for TPO, facilitating the dissection of the interplay between 
TPO protein structure, function, and autoantigenticity.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0717-5514
PMID: 30360003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


73. Int J Cancer. 2019 Mar 15;144(6):1414-1420. doi: 10.1002/ijc.31944. Epub 2018
 Dec 8.

The value of preoperative antithyroidperoxidase antibody as a novel predictor of 
recurrence in papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Song E(1), Oh HS(1), Jeon MJ(1), Chung KW(2), Hong SJ(2), Ryu JS(3), Baek JH(4), 
Lee JH(4), Kim WG(1), Kim WB(1), Shong YK(1), Kim TY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Surgery, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Department of Nuclear medicine, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Radiology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

The link between chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT) and papillary thyroid 
carcinoma (PTC) is widely recognized. Considering the strong association between 
raised antithyroidperoxidase antibody (TPOAb) and CLT, we postulated that the 
preoperative TPOAb can predict the prognosis of PTC, particularly for 
recurrence. A total of 2,070 patients who underwent total thyroidectomy for 
classical type PTC with tumor size ≥1 cm and with available data on preoperative 
TPOAb and TgAb were enrolled to compare disease-free survival (DFS) according to 
the presence of preoperative TPOAb, TgAb, and coexistent CLT. Patients with 
positive preoperative TPOAb had a significantly better DFS compared to patients 
without positive preoperative TPOAb (hazard ratio (HR) 0.53; 95% confidence 
interval (CI) 0.30-0.94, p = 0.028) while no difference in DFS was found 
according to preoperative TgAb status. Positive preoperative TPOAb was an 
independent prognostic factor for structural persistent/recurrent disease after 
adjustment for major preoperative risk factors such as age, sex, and tumor size 
(HR 0.52, 95% CI 0.28-0.99, p = 0.048). Although the coexistence of CLT lowered 
the risk for structural persistence/recurrence in univariate analysis (HR 0.52, 
95% CI 0.31-0.86, p = 0.012), it was not an independent favorable prognostic 
factor by multivariate analysis (HR 0.65, 95% CI 0.38-1.10, p = 0.106). However, 
when coexistent CLT was combined with positive preoperative TPOAb, it indicated 
an independent protective role in structural persistent/recurrent disease (HR 
0.39, 95% CI 0.16-0.98, p = 0.045). Our study clearly showed that presence of 
preoperative TPOAb can be a novel prognostic factor in predicting structural 
persistence/recurrence of PTC.

© 2018 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.31944
PMID: 30357831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Med Princ Pract. 2019;28(1):91-95. doi: 10.1159/000494800. Epub 2018 Oct 24.

Hashimoto Encephalopathy as a Complication of Autoimmune Thyroiditis.

Fiore AA(1), Pfeiffer WB(1), Rizvi SAA(2), Cortes A(3), Ziembinski C(3), Pham 
R(3), Graves S(3), Patel U(3).

Author information:
(1)Nova Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, Florida, USA.
(2)Hampton University, School of Pharmacy, Hampton, Virginia, USA, 
srizvi@nova.edu.
(3)Palmetto General Hospital, Miami, Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To present a case of Hashimoto encephalopathy as a complication of 
autoimmune thyroiditis.
CLINICAL PRESENTATION AND INTERVENTION: A previously healthy 56-year-old female 
presented with rapidly progressive cognitive decline and visual hallucinations. 
Being a diagnosis of exclusion, Hashimoto encephalopathy required an extensive 
laboratory and diagnostic workup, which was done over the course of a 15-day 
hospitalization. The patient recovered after initial treatment with intravenous 
methylprednisolone and was then switched to prednisone p.o.
CONCLUSION: This case report illustrates the importance of awareness for 
Hashimoto encephalopathy, as it remains one of the few easily treatable and 
reversible causes of rapid cognitive decline.

© 2018 The Author(s) Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000494800
PMCID: PMC6558315
PMID: 30355921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Curr Med Res Opin. 2019 Apr;35(4):675-681. doi:
10.1080/03007995.2018.1541314.  Epub 2018 Nov 27.

Atorvastatin potentiates the effect of selenomethionine on thyroid autoimmunity 
in euthyroid women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Krysiak R(1), Szkróbka W(1), Okopień B(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology , Medical 
University of Silesia , Katowice , Poland.

OBJECTIVE: In many studies, selenium supplementation decreased serum titers of 
thyroid antibodies. The aim of the study was to investigate whether statin 
therapy determines selenium action on thyroid autoimmunity.
METHODS: This prospective case-control study enrolled 42 euthyroid women with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis and normal vitamin D status, 20 of whom had been treated 
with atorvastatin (40 mg daily) for at least 6 months. All patients received 
selenomethionine (200 µg daily) for 6 months. Plasma levels of lipids, serum 
titers of thyroid peroxidase (TPOAb) and thyroglobulin (TgAb) antibodies, as 
well as serum levels of thyrotropin, free thyroid hormones, and 
25-hydroxyvitamin D were determined at the beginning and at the end of the 
study.
RESULTS: At baseline, there were no differences between both treatment arms in 
plasma lipids, titers of thyroid antibodies, serum levels of thyrotropin, free 
thyroid hormones, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D. Selenometionine decreased titers of 
TPOAb (from 843 ± 228 to 562 ± 189 U/mL) and TgAb (from 795 ± 286 to 
501 ± 216 U/mL) in atorvastatin-treated women, as well as titers of TPOAb (from 
892 ± 247 to 705 ± 205 U/mL) and TgAb (from 810 ± 301 to 645 ± 224 U/mL) in 
statin-naive women. The changes in antibody titers were more pronounced in women 
receiving atorvastatin (between-group difference: 94 [32-156] [TPOAb]; 129 
[52-206] [TgAb]). Treatment-induced changes in TPOAb and TgAb correlated 
positively with baseline thyroid antibody titers. Circulating levels of lipids, 
free thyroxine, free triiodothyronine, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D remained at 
similar levels throughout the study.
CONCLUSIONS: The obtained results indicate that the decrease in titers of 
thyroid antibodies was potentiated by atorvastatin use.

DOI: 10.1080/03007995.2018.1541314
PMID: 30354702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. DNA Cell Biol. 2018 Nov;37(11):932-940. doi: 10.1089/dna.2018.4344. Epub 2018
 Oct 23.

Polymorphisms of FAM167A-BLK Region Confer Risk of Autoimmune Thyroid Disease.

Song RH(1), Li Q(2), Jia X(2), Yao QM(2), Wang B(2), Zhang JA(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health 
Sciences Affiliated Zhoupu Hospital , Shanghai, China .
(2)2 Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University , 
Shanghai, China .

The present study was to explore whether the polymorphisms of FAM167 A-BLK 
region are associated with the susceptibility to autoimmune thyroid disease 
(AITD). The second sequencing technology was undertaken for seven tag loci 
mapping of the FAM167 A-BLK region, namely, rs11250144, rs2618431, rs4840568, 
rs13277113, rs2248932, rs2736340, and rs922483, in 999 AITD patients, including 
624 Graves' disease (GD) and 375 Hashimoto's thyroiditis individuals, and 797 
healthy cohorts. In contrast to those in controls, allele C of rs11250144 and 
allele G of rs2618431 both showed increased frequencies in GD patients. 
Consistent with this, the frequency of genotype GG in rs2618431 was increased in 
GD patients. Similarly, compared with that in female controls, allele G of 
rs2618431 was increased in the female AITD patients. Likewise, the frequency of 
allele G in rs2618431 obviously declined in the female GD patients. Allele A of 
rs4840568 linked to the susceptibility of the AITD teenagers. Besides, allele C 
in rs11250144 was correlated with thyroid-associated ophthalmopathy (TAO). 
Moreover, allele C in rs11250144 increased the risk to TAO by 56.3%. Genetic 
variants of FAM167 A-BLK region may contribute to the susceptibility to AITD, 
which can be added as the genetic candidates for this disease.

DOI: 10.1089/dna.2018.4344
PMID: 30351170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Autoimmunity. 2018 Nov;51(7):352-359. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1516761.
Epub  2018 Oct 20.

Increased circulating Tfh17 and PD-1(+)Tfh cells are associated with 
autoantibodies in Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Zhao J(1), Chen Y(2), Zhao Q(3), Shi J(4), Yang W(5), Zhu Z(5), Yu W(5), Guan 
J(5), Song Y(6), Wu H(6), Jin W(5), Zhou Y(5), Liu J(5)(7).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Clinical Laboratory , Zhejiang Sian International Hospital , 
Jiaxing , PR China.
(2)b Department of Rheumatology , Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hangzhou Medical College , Hangzhou , PR China.
(3)c Shanghai Key Laboratory of Diabetes Mellitus and Center for Translational 
Medicine , Shanghai JiaoTong University Affiliated Sixth People's Hospital , 
Shanghai , PR China.
(4)d Department of Clinical Laboratory , Cixi People's Hospital , Cixi , PR 
China.
(5)e Department of Clinical Laboratory , Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hangzhou Medical College , Hangzhou , PR China.
(6)f Department of Endocrinology , Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hangzhou Medical College , Hangzhou , PR China.
(7)g Key Laboratory of Tumor Molecular Diagnosis and Individualized Medicine of 
Zhejiang Province , Hangzhou , PR China.

OBJECTIVE: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is characterized by autoantibodies 
targeting the thyroid. Abnormal CD4+CXCR5+T cell levels were previously shown to 
be associated with HT. However, Tfh cells consist of heterogeneous 
subpopulations, and which T follicular helper (Tfh) cell subpopulation 
participates in the pathogenesis of HT remains poorly understood.
METHODS: Thirty healthy controls (HCs) and 52 HT patients were enrolled in the 
study. The percentages of Tfh, ICOS+Tfh, PD1+Tfh, Tfh1, Tfh2, Tfh17, effector 
Tfh, resting Tfh, effector memory Tfh, central memory Tfh, and naïve Tfh cells 
in the peripheral blood were all determined via flow cytometry, and the 
associations between the percentages of these cells and thyroid function indices 
were also investigated.
RESULTS: The percentage of Tfh cells was significantly higher in HT patients 
than in HCs. Examination of the Tfh cell subsets revealed that the percentages 
of Tfh1, Tfh2, and resting Tfh cells were significantly decreased, while those 
of the ICOS+Tfh, PD1+Tfh, Tfh17, and effector Tfh cells were significantly 
increased in HT patients. No significant differences in effector memory, central 
memory or naïve Tfh cell percentages were noted between the HC and HT groups. 
Furthermore, the percentage of PD1+Tfh cells was positively correlated with 
anti-thyroglobulin antibody levels. Most importantly, only Tfh17 cell 
percentages were positively correlated with anti-thyroglobulin and anti-thyroid 
peroxidase antibody levels and were negatively correlated serum free T3 and free 
T4 levels in HT patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased circulating Tfh17 cell and PD1+Tfh percentages are 
associated with higher autoantibody levels in HT patients, which imply that 
Tfh17 or PD1+Tfh cells may play a pathogenic role in the development of HT.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1516761
PMID: 30345813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Oct 21;2018:bcr2018227275. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2018-227275.

Impending cardiac tamponade as a primary presentation of Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Tirunagari D(1), Murthi S(2), Sadat B(3), Elango K(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hospital Medicine, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, Michigan, 
USA.
(2)Division of Internal Medicine, Sinai Grace Hospital, Detroit, Michigan, USA.
(3)Division of Internal Medicine, Henry Ford Health System, Detroit, Michigan, 
USA.
(4)University at Buffalo School of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Buffalo, 
New York, USA.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-227275
PMCID: PMC6203031
PMID: 30344160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


79. Autoimmunity. 2018 Nov;51(7):345-351. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1516759.
Epub  2018 Oct 20.

Increased circulating follicular regulatory T cells in Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Zhao J(1), Chen Y(2), Xu Z(3), Yang W(4), Zhu Z(4), Song Y(5), Liu J(4)(6).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Clinical Laboratory , Zhejiang Sian International Hospital , 
Jiaxing , China.
(2)b Department of Rheumatology , Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hangzhou Medical College , Hangzhou , China.
(3)c Institute of Translational Medcine, Shanghai Institute of Immunology Center 
for Microbiota & Immune Related Diseases, Shanghai General Hospital, Shanghai 
Jiaotong University School of Medicine , Shanghai , China.
(4)d Department of Clinical Laboratory , Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hangzhou Medical College , Hangzhou , China.
(5)e Department of Endocrinology , Zhejiang Provincial People's Hospital, 
Hangzhou Medical College , Hangzhou , China.
(6)f Key Laboratory of Tumor Molecular Diagnosis and Individualized Medicine of 
Zhejiang Province , Hangzhou , China.

OBJECTIVE: Follicular T helper (Tfh) cells are involved in the pathogenesis of 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), while follicular T regulatory (Tfr) cells inhibit 
Tfh cells, which mediate B cell responses. However, the role of Tfr cells in HT 
remains unclear.
METHODS: Forty-six healthy controls (HCs) and 84 HT patients were enrolled in 
the study. The percentage of Treg cells, CXCR5- Treg cells, and Tfr cells; the 
Tfr/Tfh ratio; and the percentage of ICOS, PD-1, CTLA-4, CXCR3 and CCR6 in Tfr 
cells were investigated; furthermore, the associations between the percentage of 
Tfr cells or the Tfr/Tfh ratio and the autoantibody indices were investigated.
RESULTS: Compared with that in the HCs, the percentage of Treg cells in the HT 
patients was not significantly changed, but the percentage of CXCR5- Tfr cells 
was decreased. In contrast, both the percentage of Tfr cells and the Tfr/Tfh 
ratio were significantly increased in the HT patients. Among the Tfr cells, the 
percentage of Th2-like Tfr cells was increased in the HT patients, while the 
percentage of Th17-like Tfr cells was decreased. Moreover, the percentages of 
ICOS and PD-1 on Tfr cells were significantly increased in the HT patients, 
while the percentage of CTLA-4 on Tfr cells was significantly decreased. 
However, the percentage of ICOS, PD-1 and CTLA-4 on Treg or CXCR5- Treg cells 
was not significantly changed. Last, no association was found between either the 
percentage of Tfr cells or the Tfr/Tfh ratio and the antithyroglobulin and 
antithyroid peroxidase antibody levels in the HT patients.
CONCLUSIONS: In the HT patients, the circulating Tfr cell percentage and Tfr/Tfh 
ratio were significantly increased, but the humoral immune function of Tfr cells 
might be impaired.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1516759
PMID: 30343599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. J Assoc Physicians India. 2018 Jan;66(1):95-7.

"Three in One" - Polyautoimmunity with Multiple Autoimmune Syndrome.

Agarwal A(1), Sanghi A(2), Agarwal M(3), Agarwal M(4).

Author information:
(1)Senior Consultant and Head, Department of Internal Medicine.
(2)Consultant, Department of Gastroenterology.
(3)Consultant, Department of Pathology, Narayana Multispeciality Hospital, 
Jaipur, Rajasthan.
(4)senior Consultant In Radiodiagnosis, Malviya Nagar Clinic and Sonography 
Centre, Malviya Nagar, Jaipur, Rajasthan.

Autoimmune disease (AD) may well start off as a single diagnosis and over the 
years develop into polyautoimmunity and even multiple autoimmune syndromes (MAS) 
seen in the same patient, as new clinical symptoms and laboratory finding show 
up in the course of disease. We present a case of MAS who was initially 
diagnosed to have autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) - hypothyroidism. She was 
then evaluated for persistent mild to moderate iron deficiency anemia, 
unintentional weight loss along with skin rash and diagnosed to have celiac 
disease and undifferentiated connective tissue disease (uCTD).

© Journal of the Association of Physicians of India 2011.

PMID: 30341853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Oct;97(42):e12703. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000012703.

Primary hypothyroidism in a child leads to pituitary hyperplasia: A case report 
and literature review.

Cao J(1), Lei T(2), Chen F(1), Zhang C(1), Ma C(1), Huang H(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurosurgery, First Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun, 
China.
(2)Neurovascular Research Laboratory and Neurology Department, Vall d'Hebron 
Research Institute, Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

RATIONALE: A sellar mass in children is most often seen in craniopharyngeal 
tumors, intracranial germ cell tumors, or pituitary adenomas. However, pituitary 
hyperplasia secondary to primary hypothyroidism (PHPH) is not commonly seen in 
children.
PATIENT CONCERNS: A 10-year-old girl was admitted due to growth retardation and 
obesity for 4 years. On physical examination, the patient had a height of 
118 cm, body weight of 46 kg, body mass index (BMI) of 33.0 kg/m.
DIAGNOSES: After magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and laboratory tests, her 
initial diagnosis was Hashimoto's thyroiditis, primary hypothyroidism, and 
reactive pituitary hyperplasia.
INTERVENTIONS: She was treated with oral L-thyroxine tablets.
OUTCOMES: After 6 months, physical examination showed a height of 125 cm, weight 
of 36 kg, BMI of 23.0 kg/m. She developed well, with 12 cm of yearly growth 
thereafter.
LESSONS: The diagnosis of PHPH in a child is very important and sometimes 
difficult. Based on the summary and analysis of previous cases, we can learn 
that the main manifestations of PHPH include growth arrest and obesity, perhaps 
accompanied by symptoms caused by a decreased thyroid hormone concentration and 
elevated prolactin (PRL) concentration. Intracranial MRI shows diffuse 
enlargement of the anterior lobe of the pituitary gland, with a dome-shaped 
blunt edge change. Thyroid hormone levels may decrease, whereas the thyroid 
stimulating hormone (TSH) level increases, commonly accompanied by an elevated 
PRL, reduced growth hormone (GH) levels, and positive findings of TPOAb and 
TGAb. Improvement of symptoms and the normalization of hormone levels as well as 
restoration of pituitary size can be achieved after treated with thyroid hormone 
replacement therapy. And a hasty decision on surgical resection should be 
avoided when the diagnosis is uncertain.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000012703
PMCID: PMC6211862
PMID: 30334955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


82. Immunol Invest. 2019 Feb;48(2):198-209. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2018.1529040.
Epub  2018 Oct 17.

Thyroglobulin Antibodies are Associated with Symptom Burden in Patients with 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis: A Cross-Sectional Study.

Barić A(1), Brčić L(2), Gračan S(1), Škrabić V(3), Brekalo M(1), Šimunac M(1), 
Lovrić VT(1), Anić I(4), Barbalić M(2), Zemunik T(2), Punda A(1), Boraska Perica 
V(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Nuclear Medicine , University Hospital Split , Split , 
Croatia.
(2)b Department of Medical Biology , University of Split, School of Medicine , 
Split , Croatia.
(3)c Department of Pediatrics , University Hospital Split , Split , Croatia.
(4)d School of Medicine , University of Split , Split , Croatia.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is the most common form of autoimmune 
thyroid disorders characterized by lower production of thyroid hormones and 
positivity to autoantibodies to thyroglobulin (TgAb) and/or thyroid peroxidase 
(TPOAb). We performed a comprehensive phenotypic characterization of patients 
with HT, with specific focus on thyroid autoimmunity, to get better 
understanding of disease manifestation.
METHODS: We collected information on thyroid-specific phenotypes (TSH, T3, T4, 
fT4, TgAb, TPOAb, thyroid volume) and other clinical phenotypes (age, body 
surface area, number of hypothyroidism symptoms, blood pressure) from 290 
patients with HT without levothyroxine (LT4) therapy with the aim to test for 
correlations between thyroid-specific and clinical phenotypes.
RESULTS: Our key and novel finding is the existence of significant positive 
correlation between TgAb levels and the number of symptoms (r = 0.25, 
p = 0.0001) in HT patients without LT4 therapy that remained significant after 
adjustment for TPOAb, T3, TSH levels and thyroid volume (β = 0.66, SE = 0.3, 
p = 0.0299). Increased TgAb levels are significantly associated with fragile 
hair (p = 0.0043), face edema (p = 0.0061), edema of the eyes (p = 0.0293) and 
harsh voice (p = 0.0349).
CONCLUSIONS: Elevated TgAb levels are associated with symptom burden in HT 
patients, suggesting a role of thyroid autoimmunity in clinical manifestations 
of HT. Based on these results, we recommend screening for TgAb antibodies in HT 
patients with symptom burden. We also suggest that further work on 
understandings of symptoms appearance due to their autoimmune or hypothyroid 
causation is needed.

DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2018.1529040
PMID: 30332318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Adv Clin Exp Med. 2019 Jan;28(1):109-112. doi: 10.17219/acem/85039.

Corneal biomechanical properties in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Kırgız A(1), Çabuk KŞ(1), Yetmis M(2), Atalay K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Bağcılar Training and Research Hospital, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Bağcılar Training and Research Hospital, 
Istanbul, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is an autoimmune endocrine disorder 
that results from a dysregulation of the immune system leading to an immune 
attack on the thyroid gland. It has potential effects on different organs and 
tissues.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to investigate the effect of HT on corneal 
biomechanical properties using the ocular response analyzer (ORA).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 48 patients with HT and 49 healthy subjects 
were enrolled in the study. The mean age of the patients and healthy subjects 
was 42.33 ±11.96 and 40.20 ±12.60 years, respectively (p = 0.39). All of the 
subjects underwent a full ophthalmological examination, including visual acuity, 
corneal pachymetry with topography, biomicroscopy, and funduscopy. Corneal 
biomechanical properties, including corneal hysteresis (CH) and corneal 
resistance factor (CRF), Goldmann-correlated intraocular pressure (IOPg) and 
corneal compensated IOP (IOPcc) were measured with the ORA.
RESULTS: Central corneal thickness (CCT) in the patient group and the control 
group were not significantly different (p = 0.65). Corneal hysteresis of the HT 
patients was significantly lower than that of the control group (p = 0.005). 
There were no statistically significant differences in CRF between the 2 groups 
(p = 0.53). Goldmann-correlated IOP and IOPcc were higher in the HT patients, 
but only IOPcc showed a statistically significant difference (p = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, our data shows that HT affects corneal biomechanical 
properties by decreasing CH. Thus, IOPcc measured with the ORA should be taken 
into account when determining accurate IOP values in patients with HT.

DOI: 10.17219/acem/85039
PMID: 30311752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2018 Dec;19(4):293-300. doi:
10.1007/s11154-018-9467-y.

Gut microbiota and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Virili C(1)(2), Fallahi P(3), Antonelli A(4), Benvenga S(5)(6), Centanni 
M(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Section, Department of Medico-Surgical Sciences and 
Biotechnologies, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Latina, Italy. 
camilla.virili@uniroma1.it.
(2)Endocrinology Unit, Santa Maria Goretti Hospital, Latina, Italy. 
camilla.virili@uniroma1.it.
(3)Department of Translational Research and New Technologies in Medicine and 
Surgery, University of Pisa, I-56126, Pisa, Italy.
(4)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Pisa, Pisa, 
Italy.
(5)Interdepartmental Program of Molecular & Clinical Endocrinology, and Women's 
Endocrine Health, University Hospital "G. Martino", Messina, Italy.
(6)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Policlinico Universitario G. Martino, Messina, Italy.
(7)Endocrinology Section, Department of Medico-Surgical Sciences and 
Biotechnologies, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Latina, Italy.
(8)Endocrinology Unit, Santa Maria Goretti Hospital, Latina, Italy.

About two third of the human microbial commensal community, namely the gut 
microbiota, is hosted by the gastrointestinal tract which represents the largest 
interface of the organism to the external environment. This microbial community 
co-evolved in a symbiotic relationship with the human beings. Growing evidence 
support the notion that the microbiota plays a significant role in maintaining 
nutritional, metabolic and immunologic homeostasis in the host. Microbiota, 
beside the expected role in maintaining gastrointestinal homeostasis also exerts 
metabolic functions in nutrients digestion and absorption, detoxification and 
vitamins' synthesis. Intestinal microbiota is also key in the correct 
development of the lymphoid system, 70% of which resides at the intestinal 
level. Available studies, both in murine models and humans, have shown an 
altered ratio between the different phyla, which characterize a" normal" gut 
microbiota, in a number of different disorders including obesity, to which a 
significant part of the studies on intestinal microbiota has been addressed so 
far. These variations in gut microbiota composition, known as dysbiosis, has 
been also described in patients bearing intestinal autoimmune diseases as well 
as type 1 diabetes mellitus, systemic sclerosis and systemic lupus 
erythematosus. Being Hashimoto's thyroiditis the most frequent autoimmune 
disorder worldwide, the analysis of the reciprocal influence with intestinal 
microbiota gained interest. The whole thyroid peripheral homeostasis may be 
sensitive to microbiota changes but there is also evidence that the genesis and 
progression of autoimmune thyroid disorders may be significantly affected from a 
changing intestinal microbial composition or even from overt dysbiosis. In this 
brief review, we focused on the main features which characterize the reciprocal 
influence between microbiota and thyroid autoimmunity described in the most 
recent literature.

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-018-9467-y
PMID: 30294759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Horm Metab Res. 2018 Dec;50(12):853-862. doi: 10.1055/a-0723-9023. Epub 2018
Oct  4.

Thyrotropin Receptor Blocking Antibodies.

Diana T(1), Olivo PD(2), Kahaly GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Thyroid Research Laboratory, Department of Medicine I, Johannes 
Gutenberg University (JGU) Medical Center, Mainz, Germany.
(2)Department of Molecular Microbiology, Washington University Medical School, 
St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

Autoantibodies (Ab) against the thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor (TSHR) are 
frequently found in autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD). Autoantibodies to the 
TSHR (anti-TSHR-Ab) may mimic or block the action of TSH or be functionally 
neutral. Measurement of anti-TSHR-Ab can be done either via competitive-binding 
immunoassays or with functional cell-based bioassays. Antibody-binding assays do 
not assess anti-TSHR-Ab functionality, but rather measure the concentration of 
total anti-TSHR binding activity. In contrast, functional cell-based bioassays 
indicate whether anti-TSHR-Ab have stimulatory or blocking activity. 
Historically bioassays for anti-TSHR-Ab were research tools and were used to 
study the pathophysiology of Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. In the 
past, bioassays for anti-TSHR-Abs were laborious and time-consuming and varied 
widely in performance from laboratory to laboratory. Recent advances in the 
development of cell-based assays, including the application of molecular 
engineering, have led to significant improvements that have enabled bioassays to 
be employed routinely in clinical laboratories. The prevalence and functional 
significance of TSHR blocking autoantibodies (TBAb) in autoimmune hypothyroidism 
has been less well investigated compared to TSHR stimulating Ab. There is an 
increasing body of data, however, that demonstrate the clinical utility and 
relevance of TBAb, and thus the importance of TBAb bioassays, in the diagnosis 
and management of patients with AITD. In the present review, we summarize the 
different methods used to measure TBAb, and discuss their prevalence and 
clinical relevance.

Eigentümer und Copyright ©Georg Thieme Verlag KG 2018.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0723-9023
PMCID: PMC6290727
PMID: 30286485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: TD has nothing to disclose. PDO and GJK consult 
for Quidel, USA.


86. J Endocrinol Invest. 2019 May;42(5):567-576. doi: 10.1007/s40618-018-0955-4. 
Epub 2018 Oct 3.

Genome-wide association analysis suggests novel loci for Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Brčić L(1), Barić A(2), Gračan S(2), Brekalo M(2), Kaličanin D(1), Gunjača I(1), 
Torlak Lovrić V(2), Tokić S(3), Radman M(2), Škrabić V(4), Miljković A(5), 
Kolčić I(5), Štefanić M(6), Glavaš-Obrovac L(3), Lessel D(7), Polašek O(5), 
Zemunik T(1), Barbalić M(1), Punda A(2), Boraska Perica V(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biology, School of Medicine, University of Split, 
Šoltanska 2, 21000, Split, Croatia.
(2)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital Split, Split, Croatia.
(3)Department of Medical Chemistry, Biochemistry and Clinical Chemistry, Faculty 
of Medicine, University of Osijek, Osijek, Croatia.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital Split, Split, Croatia.
(5)Department of Public Health, School of Medicine, University of Split, Split, 
Croatia.
(6)Department of Nuclear Medicine and Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, University 
of Osijek, Osijek, Croatia.
(7)Institute of Human Genetics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(8)Department of Medical Biology, School of Medicine, University of Split, 
Šoltanska 2, 21000, Split, Croatia. vboraska@mefst.hr.

PURPOSE: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is the most common form of autoimmune 
thyroid diseases. Current knowledge of HT genetics is limited, and not a single 
genome-wide association study (GWAS) focusing exclusively on HT has been 
performed to date. In order to decipher genetic determinants of HT, we performed 
the first GWAS followed by replication in a total of 1443 individuals from 
Croatia.
METHODS: We performed association analysis in a discovery cohort comprising 405 
cases and 433 controls. We followed up 13 independent signals (P < 10-5) in 303 
cases and 302 controls from two replication cohorts and then meta-analyzed 
results across discovery and replication datasets.
RESULTS: We identified three variants suggestively associated with HT: 
rs12944194 located 206 kb from SDK2 (P = 1.8 × 10-6), rs75201096 inside GNA14 
(P = 2.41 × 10-5) and rs791903 inside IP6K3 (P = 3.16 × 10-5). Genetic risk 
score (GRS), calculated using risk alleles of these loci, accounted for 4.82% of 
the total HT variance, and individuals from the top GRS quartile had 2.76 times 
higher odds for HT than individuals from the lowest GRS quartile.
CONCLUSIONS: Although discovered loci are implicated with susceptibility to HT 
for the first time, genomic regions harboring these loci exhibit good biological 
candidacy due to involvement in the regulation of the thyroid function and 
autoimmunity. Additionally, we observe genetic overlap between HT and several 
related traits, such as hypothyroidism, Graves' disease and TPOAb. Our study 
adds a new knowledge of underlying HT genetics and sets a firm basis for further 
research.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-018-0955-4
PMID: 30284222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. N Engl J Med. 2018 Oct 4;379(14):1363. doi: 10.1056/NEJMicm1801633.

Brittle Nails and Hair Loss in Hypothyroidism.

Taguchi T(1).

Author information:
(1)Kochi University, Kochi, Japan tt27k5@orion.ocn.ne.jp.

Comment in
    MMW Fortschr Med. 2019 Mar;161(4):32. doi: 10.1007/s15006-019-0222-4.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMicm1801633
PMID: 30281986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2019 Sep;127(8):545-549. doi:
10.1055/a-0723-3441.  Epub 2018 Sep 28.

Neutrophil- and Platelet- to Lymphocyte Ratio in Patients with Euthyroid 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Bilge M(1), Yesilova A(1), Adas M(2), Helvaci A(1).

Author information:
(1)Okmeydani Research and Training Hospital, Internal Medicine Clinic, Istanbul, 
Turkey.
(2)Okmeydani Research and Training Hospital, Department of Endocrinology in 
Internal Medicine Clinic, Istanbul, Turkey.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is the most prevalent autoimmune 
thyroid disorder. Both neutrophil-to-lymphocyte ratio (NLR) and 
platelet-to-lymphocyte ratio (PLR) are reported to be increased in various 
inflammation-related diseases, but their clinical significance in HT remains 
unclear.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between 
thyroid autommunity and NLR and PLR as markers of systemic inflammation in HT.
METHODS: In this study, we evaluated 145 women with HT and 60 age-matched 
healthy controls. We compared the PLR and the NLR of HT patients with controls 
and the correlation between the NLR, PLR, and C-reactive protein (CRP), 
thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) and thyroid antibody titers in the patient 
group. Also we compared the PLR and the NLR of HT patients that received 
levothyroxine with those who did not receive levothyroxine RESULTS: There were 
no significant differences between patient and control groups in terms of 
overall leukocyte counts, neutrophil counts, and other laboratory tests. In the 
patient group lymphocyte counts were lower while the platelet counts, NLR 
(2.29±0.65 vs1.68±0.40), PLR (164.95±55.14 vs106.88±32.19) were higher than 
those of the control (p<0.001 for all comparisons).
CONCLUSION: In this study we found that NLR and PLR were higher in euthyroid 
Hashimoto patients than in a healthy control group. NLR and PLR are likely 
non-specific indicators of immune disorder and their implications for HT and 
other conditions remain to be elucidated.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0723-3441
PMID: 30267388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


89. J Neurol Sci. 2018 Nov 15;394:141-143. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2018.09.008. Epub
2018  Sep 8.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy mimicking a brain tumor and its pathological 
findings: A case report.

Uwatoko H(1), Yabe I(2), Sato S(2), Abe M(2), Shirai S(2), Takahashi I(2), 
Matsushima M(2), Kano T(2), Yamaguchi S(3), Hatanaka KC(4), Yoneda M(5), Sasaki 
H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Hokkaido University, Kita 15 Nishi 7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan. 
Electronic address: uwatoko@pop.med.hokudai.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Hokkaido University, Kita 15 Nishi 7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, Faculty of Medicine, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Hokkaido University, Kita 15 Nishi 7, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8638, Japan.
(4)Department of Surgical Pathology, Hokkaido University Hospital, Kita 14 Nishi 
5, Kita-ku, Sapporo 060-8648, Japan.
(5)Department of Nursing Science, Graduate School of Nursing, Social Welfare 
Sciences, Fukui Prefectural University, 4-1-1 Kenjojima, Matsuoka, Eiheiji-cho, 
Yoshida-gun, Fukui 910-1195, Japan.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy is characterized by the presence of anti-thyroid 
antibodies with no alternative cause. Patients with Hashimoto's encephalopathy 
present with various clinical symptoms and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
findings. To our knowledge, this is the first documented report of Hashimoto's 
encephalopathy with MRI findings mimicking a brain tumor. The patient was a 
41-year-old woman with a history of Hashimoto's disease. She experienced 
gradually worsening Parkinsonism and an MRI revealed a brain tumor-like lesion 
at the left caudate nucleus. She underwent a brain biopsy that revealed diffuse 
gliosis and perivascular lymphocyte infiltration with CD3+ T-cell predominance. 
No pathological signs of a brain tumor were found. Hashimoto's encephalopathy 
was suspected based on the patient's history and the presence of anti-thyroid 
antibodies. Her symptoms and the MRI findings improved with glucocorticoid 
treatment. Although there exist only a few studies on the pathology of 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy, our findings were consistent with those of previous 
reports. Our findings suggest cerebral vasculitis as an underlying etiology of 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy. We also emphasize the importance of considering 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy as a differential diagnosis of brain tumors.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2018.09.008
PMID: 30266017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. J Am Coll Nutr. 2019 Mar-Apr;38(3):259-266. doi:
10.1080/07315724.2018.1503103.  Epub 2018 Sep 28.

Evaluation of Correlations Between Food-Specific Antibodies and Clinical Aspects 
of Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Kaličanin D(1), Brčić L(1), Barić A(2), Zlodre S(3), Barbalić M(1), Torlak 
Lovrić V(2), Punda A(2), Boraska Perica V(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Medical Biology , University of Split, School of Medicine , 
Split , Croatia.
(2)b Department of Nuclear Medicine , University Hospital Split , Split , 
Croatia.
(3)c Laboratory for Biochemistry , Polyclinic Analiza , Dugopolje , Croatia.

OBJECTIVE: We have comprehensively evaluated an immunologic response to food 
antigens, mediated by immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies, on clinical aspects of 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT).
METHODS: IgG antibodies to 125 food antigens were measured in serum samples of 
74 HT patients and 245 controls using microarray-based enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test. We analyzed differences in IgG levels between 
two groups and evaluated correlations between food-specific IgG levels and 
HT-related clinical phenotypes (thyroid hormones/antibodies, symptoms of 
hypothyroidism, measures of body size and blood pressure) and food consumption 
in HT patients.
RESULTS: We observed increased IgG levels to 12 different food antigens in 
either HT cases or controls, of which plum-specific IgG antibodies were 
significantly higher (p = 1.70 × 10-8), and almond-specific IgG antibodies were 
significantly lower (p = 8.11 × 10-5) in HT patients in comparison to controls, 
suggesting their possible roles in HT etiology or symptomatology. There was no 
significant correlation between any of 12 increased food-specific IgG 
antibodies, along with gluten-specific IgG, with clinically important 
phenotypes, such as thyroid hormones/antibodies or symptoms. Among other tested 
correlations, the most interesting is the negative correlation between coffee 
and tea combined IgG levels and number of symptoms, suggesting possible 
beneficial effect of tea and coffee on disease symptoms. We also found that food 
consumption is not correlated with IgG levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Distribution of food-specific IgG antibodies is comparable between 
HT patients and controls, with the exception of plum and almond. There is no 
evidence that increased food-specific IgG antibodies are associated with 
clinical aspects of HT. Clarification of biology behind formation of these 
antibodies is needed.

DOI: 10.1080/07315724.2018.1503103
PMID: 30265836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Turk Psikiyatri Derg. 2018 Fall;29(3):216-219.

[Meta-Cognitive Ability and Brain Damage in Autoimmune Encephalitis: A Case 
Report].

[Article in Turkish]

Corallo F, Lo Buono V, Bonanno L, De Salvo S, Sergı G, Bramantı P, Marıno S.

Autoimmune encephalitis is an important contributor to rapidly progressive 
cognitive and behavioral decline. The purpose of this work was to evaluate the 
effects of cognitive rehabilitation in a patient with autoimmune encephalitis. 
We also wanted to evaluate the effectiveness of rehabilitative treatment by 
monitoring the cognitive and metacognitive outcomes over a time interval. We 
reported a case of 22 year-old female patient with autoimmune encephalitis, 
cognitive behavioral impairments, and severe reduction in metarepresentational 
capacity. We performed an assessment of personality, neuropsychological, and 
meta-cognitive functions at the beginning of the rehabilitative training. The 
last evaluation was performed six months after the discharge from the 
rehabilitation unit. We applied a combination of remediation, psycho-educational 
treatment, and psychotherapy to improve the knowledge and the empathy of the 
patient, to promote the selfcontrol strategies, and to prompt better behavioral 
management. Our findings revealed an improvement in the performance of the 
individual tests after rehabilitative training.

PMID: 30260468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Dermatol Ther. 2018 Nov;31(6):e12717. doi: 10.1111/dth.12717. Epub 2018 Sep
26.

Coexistence of mucous membrane pemphigoid, vitiligo, and hypothyroidism: A 
second report of a new multiple autoimmune syndrome.

Niknezhad N(1), Ghalamkarpour F(1), Niknejad N(2), Asadi-Kani Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Skin Research Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, 
Shohada-e-Tajrish Hospital, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Pathology, Cancer Institute, Imam Khomeini Hospital Complex, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Mucous membrane pemphigoid (MMP) is a rare immunobullous disease affecting the 
mucous membrane and skin. An association of MMP with other autoimmune disease is 
uncommon. Multiple autoimmune syndrome (MAS) is a subclass of autoimmune 
disorders with a coexistence of three or more autoimmune disorder in a single 
patient. The second report of the association of vitiligo, autoimmune thyroid 
disease, and MMP shows that this combination can be considered as a new type of 
MAS, although its mechanism and pathology are unknown.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/dth.12717
PMID: 30255974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. J Cell Physiol. 2019 Mar;234(3):2204-2216. doi: 10.1002/jcp.27180. Epub 2018
Sep  24.

The pathogenesis of thyroid autoimmune diseases: New T lymphocytes - Cytokines 
circuits beyond the Th1-Th2 paradigm.

Li Q(1), Wang B(1), Mu K(2), Zhang JA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health 
Sciences Affiliated Zhoupu Hospital, Shanghai, China.

Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) is one of the most common organ-specific 
autoimmune disorders. It mainly manifests as Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and 
Graves' disease (GD). HT is characteristic of hypothyroidism resulting from the 
destruction of the thyroid while GD is characteristic of hyperthyroidism due to 
excessive production of thyroid hormone induced by thyrotropin receptor-specific 
stimulatory autoantibodies. T lymphocytes and their secretory cytokines play 
indispensable roles in modulating immune responses, but their roles are often 
complex and full of interactions among distinct components of the immune system. 
Dysfunction of these T cells or aberrant expressions of these cytokines can 
cause the breakdown of immune tolerance and result in aberrant immune responses 
during the development of AITDs. This review summarizes recently identified T 
subsets and related cytokines and their roles in the pathogenesis of AITDs with 
the hope to provide a better understanding of the precise roles of notably 
identified T subsets in AITDs and facilitate the discovery of functional 
molecules or novel immune therapeutic targets for AITDs.

© 2018 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.27180
PMID: 30246383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Endocrinol Diabetes Nutr (Engl Ed). 2018 Nov;65(9):546-547. doi: 
10.1016/j.endinu.2018.07.002. Epub 2018 Sep 21.

Successful treatment of painful Hashimoto's thyroiditis with intrathyroidal 
injection of glucocorticoid in two patients.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Paja M(1), Del Cura JL(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Endocrinología, Hospital Universitario de Basurto, Bilbao, 
Vizcaya, España. Electronic address: miguel.pajafano@osakidetza.eus.
(2)Servicio de Radiodiagnóstico, Hospital Universitario de Basurto, Bilbao, 
Vizcaya, España.

DOI: 10.1016/j.endinu.2018.07.002
PMID: 30244841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Metab Brain Dis. 2019 Feb;34(1):53-60. doi: 10.1007/s11011-018-0318-z. Epub
2018  Sep 21.

The metabolic alterations within the normal appearing brain in patients with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis are correlated with hormonal changes.

Bladowska J(1), Waliszewska-Prosół M(2), Ejma M(3), Sąsiadek M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Radiology, Interventional Radiology and Neuroradiology, 
Wrocław Medical University, Wrocław, Poland.
(2)Department of Neurology, Wrocław Medical University, ul. Borowska 213, 
50-556, Wrocław, Poland. marta.waliszewska@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Neurology, Wrocław Medical University, ul. Borowska 213, 
50-556, Wrocław, Poland.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is the most common autoimmune disease in humans 
usually associated with subsequent hypothyroidism. The purpose of the study was 
to assess metabolic alterations within the normal appearing brain in subjects 
with HT using MR spectroscopy (MRS) and to correlate MRS measurements with 
hormonal concentrations. Fifty-five HT patients (mean age 43.5 yrs) and 30 
healthy controls (mean age 42.5 yrs) were examined with the use of a 1.5 T MR 
scanner. There were no signs of central nervous system involvement in the 
studied group. The MRS examinations were performed using the single voxel 
method. The voxels were placed in the left parietal white matter (PWM) and the 
posterior cingulate gyrus (PCG). The NAA/Cr, Cho/Cr, and mI/Cr ratios were 
calculated. The correlations between metabolite ratios and hormonal 
concentrations (TSH, fT3, fT4) as well as anti-TG and anti-TPO levels were also 
assessed. We found significantly (p < 0.05) decreased NAA/Cr ratios in PCG and 
PWM in HT subjects compared to the control group. There were no other 
significant differences in metabolite ratios. We observed significant positive 
correlations between the NAA/Cr ratio in PCG as well as the PWM and fT3 level. 
There was also a significant negative correlation between the Cho/Cr ratio in 
the PCG and fT4 level. MRS could be a sensitive biomarker capable of depicting 
early cerebral metabolic disturbances associated with HT. Our findings may 
indicate the reduction of neuronal activity within the normal appearing brain in 
patients with HT as well as suggesting that there is a possible biological 
association between thyroid dysfunction and cerebral metabolic changes.

DOI: 10.1007/s11011-018-0318-z
PMCID: PMC6351519
PMID: 30242734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The author (Joanna 
Bladowska, Marta Waliszewska-Prosół, Maria Ejma, Marek Sąsiadek) declares that 
he/she has no conflict of interest. ETHICAL APPROVAL: All procedures performed 
in studies involving human participants were in accordance with the ethical 
standards of the institutional and/or national research committee and with the 
1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical 
standards. This article does not contain any studies with animals performed by 
any of the authors. INFORMED CONSENT: Informed consent was obtained from all 
individual participants included in the study.


96. Clin Rheumatol. 2018 Dec;37(12):3435-3437. doi: 10.1007/s10067-018-4305-x.
Epub  2018 Sep 20.

Clinical description of patients with cytoplasmic discrete dots pattern 
(lysosome) on indirect immunofluorescence on HEp-2 cells.

Brom M(1), Carrizo CE(2), Arana RM(2), Pisoni CN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, CEMIC, Galvan 4102 Av., 1431, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. drmartinbrom@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Immunology and Rheumatology, CEMIC, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

The cytoplasmic discrete dot (CDD) pattern is an unusual finding in indirect 
immunofluorescence, and its clinical value is unknown. To describe the clinical 
characteristics of patients with CDD pattern on indirect immunofluorescence 
(IIF) from our laboratory database and to evaluate possible associations with 
other autoantibodies and autoimmune diseases. This is a retrospective 
descriptive study. We included all patients with CDD pattern on IIF in HEp-2 
cells with a titer equal or greater than 1/80, using a database of all IIF 
performed in a reference immunology and rheumatology laboratory between 2007 and 
2015. Data on demographics, past medical history, and relevant laboratory 
findings were recorded and analyzed. We performed 13.056 IIF on HEp-2 cells 
tests between January 1, 2007 and December 31, 2015, with 6075 positive results. 
Among them, 5447 had nuclear pattern, 55 had both nuclear and cytoplasmic 
pattern, and 573 had cytoplasmic pattern. Only 21 showed a CDD pattern. Four 
patients were excluded since they did not have medical records at the 
institution. The prevalence of the CDD pattern in our laboratory was 0.35%. The 
median age was of 62.3 years (SD 9.16) and 100% were female. Fifty-three percent 
(9/17) had an autoimmune disease, Hashimoto's thyroiditis (4/9) being the most 
frequent one. In conclusion, cytoplasmic discrete dot pattern is an uncommon 
finding and its clinical value is uncertain. However, in our study, 53% of the 
patients had an autoimmune disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-018-4305-x
PMID: 30238378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Neurol Sci. 2019 Jan;40(1):217-220. doi: 10.1007/s10072-018-3579-8. Epub 2018
 Sep 19.

Efficacy of subcutaneous immunoglobulin therapy in a patient with autoimmune 
encephalitis: a case report.

Lazzaro AT(1), Romeo L(2), Gnessi C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, S. Maria Goretti Hospital, Via Guido Reni, 1, 04100, 
Latina, Italy. at.lazzaro@ausl.latina.it.
(2)Department of Neurology, S. Maria Goretti Hospital, Via Guido Reni, 1, 04100, 
Latina, Italy.
(3)Department of University Diabetology, S. Maria Goretti Hospital, Via Guido 
Reni, 1, 04100, Latina, Italy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-018-3579-8
PMID: 30232671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Thyroid. 2018 Dec;28(12):1587-1594. doi: 10.1089/thy.2018.0263. Epub 2018 Oct
 17.

Active Surveillance of Low-Risk Papillary Thyroid Microcarcinoma: A Multi-Center 
Cohort Study in Korea.

Oh HS(1), Ha J(2), Kim HI(3)(4), Kim TH(3), Kim WG(1), Lim DJ(2), Kim TY(1), Kim 
SW(3), Kim WB(1), Shong YK(1), Chung JH(3), Baek JH(5).

Author information:
(1)1 Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)2 Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Seoul St. Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of 
Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(3)3 Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, Thyroid 
Center, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(4)4 Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, Samsung 
Changwon Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University School of Medicine, Changwon, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)5 Department of Radiology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Active surveillance has been introduced as a management option for 
low-risk papillary thyroid microcarcinoma (PTMC) due to its mostly indolent 
course.
METHODS: This was a multicenter study of 370 PTMC patients who underwent active 
surveillance more than one year. The changes in volume and maximum diameter 
between initial and last ultrasonography were evaluated to identify the natural 
course of PTMC during active surveillance.
RESULTS: Patients' age at diagnosis was 51 ± 12 years, and 110 (30%) patients 
were <45 years of age. The initial maximum diameter and volume of PTMCs were 
5.9 ± 1.7 mm and 81.0 ± 77.7 mm3, respectively. During the median 32.5 months of 
follow-up, 86 (23.2%) patients were found to have an increase in tumor volume, 
and 13 (3.5%) patients showed an increase in the maximal diameter of the tumor. 
The cumulative incidence of volume increase gradually rose with time (6.9%, 
17.3%, 28.2%, and 36.2% after two, three, four, and five years, respectively). 
The risk of volume increase in patients <45 years of age was twice as high as in 
older patients (p = 0.002). There was no significant difference in tumor size 
change according to sex, levothyroxine treatment, or presence of Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis. During the period, 58 (15.7%) patients underwent delayed thyroid 
surgery due to anxiety (37.9%), tumor size increase (32.8%), or appearance of 
cervical lymph node metastasis (8.6%). Lymph node metastasis was found in 29.3% 
of patients on pathological examination.
CONCLUSIONS: A significant number of PTMCs grow during active surveillance, and 
tumor volume change is a more sensitive means of evaluating tumor growth. Active 
surveillance can be carefully applied for selected patients. Although it is not 
contraindicated, it should be applied more cautiously for younger patients.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2018.0263
PMID: 30226447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2018 Oct 25;31(10):1123-1131. doi: 
10.1515/jpem-2018-0051.

Seasonality of month of birth in children and adolescents with autoimmune 
thyroiditis: a continuing conundrum.

Kyrgios I(1), Giza S(1), Tsinopoulou VR(1), Maggana I(1), Haidich AB(2), 
Galli-Tsinopoulou A(1).

Author information:
(1)4th Department of Pediatrics, Faculty of Health Sciences, Medical School, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Papageorgiou General Hospital, 
Thessaloniki, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Hygiene and Epidemiology, Faculty of Health Sciences, Medical 
School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, University Campus, Thessaloniki, 
Greece.

Background The aim of this study was to analyze the seasonal birth month pattern 
in young patients with autoimmune thyroiditis and compare it with youth 
controls. Methods Medical records of a total of 298 children and adolescents of 
Greek origin, with a diagnosis of Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT) before the age of 
21 years that were born from 1987 to 2010 were retrospectively reviewed. In 
addition, 298 consecutive subjects that were born from 1988 to 2012 and 
evaluated in a tertiary unit for any reason, served as controls, provided that 
they had no personal or family history of thyroid or any other autoimmune 
disease. Results Significant differences were found between children and 
adolescents with HT and healthy controls in the yearly pattern of month of birth 
distribution (p=0.029). During month-by-month analysis, it was shown that the 
highest and lowest predispositions to HT were among those born in spring (March) 
(odds ratio [OR] 2.34, p=0.005), and autumn (November) (OR 0.49, p=0.035), 
respectively. A binary logistic regression model also revealed that season of 
birth and sex were the only factors that remained related to HT disease, even 
after adjustment for confounding factors such as year of birth and age (p<0.001, 
Nagelkerke r-square 0.151). Conclusions This study suggests that the effect of 
certain seasonal factors during fetal development, reflected by the seasonal 
differences in birth pattern, in children and adolescents with autoimmune 
thyroiditis could contribute to long-term programming of an autoimmune response 
against the thyroid gland. Further studies are needed to demonstrate a clear 
cause and effect relationship between month of birth and HT.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2018-0051
PMID: 30226206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Dermatol. 2018 Dec;45(12):1411-1417. doi: 10.1111/1346-8138.14648. Epub
2018  Sep 17.

Alopecia areata and overt thyroid diseases: A nationwide population-based study.

Han TY(1), Lee JH(1), Noh TK(1), Choi MW(1), Yun JS(2), Lee KH(3), Bae JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Eulji General Hospital, Eulji University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(2)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, St 
Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, 
Suwon, Korea.
(3)Department of Dermatology, Bucheon St Mary's Hospital, College of Medicine, 
The Catholic University of Korea, Suwon, Korea.
(4)Department of Dermatology, St Vincent's Hospital, College of Medicine, The 
Catholic University of Korea, Suwon, Korea.

An association between alopecia areata (AA) and other autoimmune diseases has 
been reported. We investigated the associations between AA and overt autoimmune 
thyroid diseases. A nationwide, population-based, cross-sectional study was 
performed using the Korea National Health Insurance claims database. We defined 
patients with AA as those whose records showed at least four physician contacts 
in which AA, alopecia totalis (AT) or alopecia universalis (AU) was the 
principal diagnosis. We also established an age- and sex-matched control group 
without AA. In a subgroup analysis, patients with AT or AU were classified into 
the severe AA group, and the remainder were classified into the mild to moderate 
AA group. Patients with AA were at an increased risk of Graves' disease (odds 
ratio [OR], 1.415; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.317-1.520) and Hashimoto 
thyroiditis (OR, 1.157; 95% CI, 1.081-1.237), and the associations were stronger 
in the severe AA group (Graves' disease: OR, 1.714; 95% CI, 1.387-2.118; 
Hashimoto thyroiditis: OR, 1.398; 95% CI, 1.137-1.719). In conclusion, AA was 
significantly associated with overt autoimmune thyroid diseases. Furthermore, 
the risk was much higher in the severe AA group.

© 2018 Japanese Dermatological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/1346-8138.14648
PMID: 30222206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Mol Med Rep. 2018 Nov;18(5):4303-4312. doi: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9434. Epub 2018
Sep  3.

Effect of emodin on T cell subsets in NOD mice with NaI‑induced experimental 
autoimmune thyroiditis.

Sun H(1), Ye Z(2), Li N(2), Jin F(2), Yan J(2), Wu K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhejiang 
Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310006, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of 
Zhejiang Chinese Medical University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310006, P.R. China.

Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT), also known as Hashimoto's thyroiditis, is 
an autoimmune disease in which the thyroid gland is gradually destroyed. To 
date, only a limited number of agents can effectively suppress thyroiditis 
development in CLT patients. The aim of the current study was to investigate the 
protective effect of emodin on experimental autoimmune thyroiditis (EAT) in 
mice, which is considered an excellent model for CLT. NaI was used to induce the 
EAT model in non‑obese diabetic (NOD) mice. An ELISA method was employed to 
detect the TgAb level (thyroid inflammation) in the serum of the EAT mice. The T 
cell subsets in peripheral blood and spleen were detected by flow cytometry. The 
histopathological study revealed that the thyroid inflammatory cell infiltration 
was significantly reduced by emodin compared with the model group. In addition, 
ELISA assays indicated that the NaI‑induced serum TgAb upregulation was 
dramatically revered by emodin. Moreover, the level of serum IFN‑γ and the cell 
populations of CD3+CD4+IL‑4+, CD3+CD4+ IFN‑γ+, CD3+CD8+IL‑4+, CD3+CD8+ IFN‑γ+ T 
cells in peripheral blood monocytes and splenic lymphocytes were significantly 
increased by NaI in the model group compared with in the normal group. 
Nevertheless, this type of increase was markedly attenuated by emodin. To 
conclude, the EAT model was successfully established by treating NOD mice with 
NaI. Emodin indicated an inhibitory effect on the autoimmune response that was 
significantly different in EAT compared with control mice. Furthermore, the 
anti‑inflammatory action of emodin on EAT mice may be mediated via the 
inhibition of the secretion of IFN‑γ and the cell numbers of CD3+CD4+IL‑4+, 
CD3+CD4+ IFN‑γ+, CD3+CD8+IL‑4+ and CD3+CD8+ IFN‑γ+ T cells in the peripheral 
blood monocytes and splenic lymphocytes. Therefore, the data may offer valuable 
insight on the efficacy of treatment of CLT with emodin.

DOI: 10.3892/mmr.2018.9434
PMCID: PMC6172386
PMID: 30221664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Proc Nutr Soc. 2019 Feb;78(1):34-44. doi: 10.1017/S0029665118001192. Epub
2018  Sep 13.

Multiple nutritional factors and thyroid disease, with particular reference to 
autoimmune thyroid disease.

Rayman MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Sciences,Faculty of Health and Medical 
Sciences,University of Surrey,Guildford GU2 7XH,UK.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and Graves' disease (GD) are examples of autoimmune 
thyroid disease (AITD), the commonest autoimmune condition. Antibodies to 
thyroid peroxidase (TPO), the enzyme that catalyses thyroid-hormone production 
and antibodies to the receptor for the thyroid-stimulating hormone, are 
characteristic of HT and GD, respectively. It is presently accepted that genetic 
susceptibility, environmental factors, including nutritional factors and immune 
disorders contribute to the development of AITD. Aiming to investigate the 
effect of iodine, iron and selenium in the risk, pathogenesis and treatment of 
thyroid disease, PubMed and the Cochrane Library were searched for relevant 
publications to provide a narrative review. Iodine: chronic exposure to excess 
iodine intake induces autoimmune thyroiditis, partly because highly-iodinated 
thyroglobulin (Tg) is more immunogenic. The recent introduction of universal 
salt iodisation can have a similar, although transient, effect. Iron: iron 
deficiency impairs thyroid metabolism. TPO is a haem enzyme that becomes active 
only after binding haem. AITD patients are frequently iron-deficient since 
autoimmune gastritis, which reduces iron absorption and coeliac disease which 
causes iron loss, are frequent co-morbidities. In two-thirds of women with 
persistent symptoms of hypothyroidism despite appropriate levothyroxine therapy, 
restoration of serum ferritin above 100 µg/l ameliorated symptoms. Selenium: 
selenoproteins are essential to thyroid action. In particular, the glutathione 
peroxidases remove excessive hydrogen peroxide produced there for the iodination 
of Tg to form thyroid hormones. There is evidence from observational studies and 
randomised controlled trials that selenium, probably as selenoproteins, can 
reduce TPO-antibody concentration, hypothyroidism and postpartum thyroiditis. 
Appropriate status of iodine, iron and selenium is crucial to thyroid health.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665118001192
PMID: 30208979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Transfusion. 2018 Sep;58(9):2102-2103. doi: 10.1111/trf.14801.

Neutrophil-red blood cell rosetting in a patient with autoimmune hemolytic 
anemia.

Gocke CB(1), Shanbhag S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Departments of Medicine and Oncology, Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

DOI: 10.1111/trf.14801
PMID: 30204948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Medicina (B Aires). 2018;78 Suppl 2:88-93.

[Autoimmune encephalitis. New diagnosis for an old condition].

[Article in Spanish]

Caparó Oblitas RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Nacional Edgardo Rebagliati Martins, Lima, Perú. E-mail: 
rco@neuropediatrica.com.

Autoimmune encephalitis is a new group of diseases of great clinical and 
therapeutic importance due to the good response in most cases to the 
immunomodulatory therapy indicated, with a large percentage of healing without 
significant neurological effects (cognitive, motor, seizures or involuntary 
movements). Since 2007, the presence of neuronal autoantibodies in the 
pathogenesis of this group of diseases has been demonstrated, with psychotic 
symptoms and involuntary movements as clinical markers of the disease. The 
present review emphasizes the crucial leap and change of paradigms arising after 
the discovery of these encephalitis associated with antibodies.

PMID: 30199372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. J Neuroimmunol. 2018 Oct 15;323:62-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2018.07.009.
Epub  2018 Jul 25.

Predictors of neural-specific autoantibodies and immunotherapy response in 
patients with cognitive dysfunction.

Dubey D(1), Kothapalli N(2), McKeon A(3), Flanagan EP(3), Lennon VA(3), Klein 
CJ(3), Britton JW(2), So E(2), Boeve BF(2), Tillema JM(2), Sadjadi R(4), Pittock 
SJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, United States; Department of 
Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, United States; 
Department of Neurology, Massachusetts's General Hospital, Boston, United 
States. Electronic address: dubey.divyanshu@mayo.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, United States; Department of 
Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, United States.
(4)Department of Neurology, Massachusetts's General Hospital, Boston, United 
States.

Recognition of autoimmunity as a cause of encephalopathy has increased. Recent 
studies have validated the use of Antibody-Prevalence-in-Epilepsy (APE) and 
Responsive-to-immunotherapy-in-Epilepsy (RITE) scores in the evaluation and 
management of autoimmune-epilepsy. We aim to assess the utility of these models 
for patients with cognitive dysfunction. Among the evaluated patients, 17% had 
antibodies universally associated with autoimmune-encephalopathy. NMDA-R-IgG and 
LGI1-IgG were the most common antibody specificities. 
Antibody-Prevalence-in-Epilepsy-and-Encephalopathy (APE2) score ≥ 4 was 99% 
sensitive and 93% specific for neural-specific-antibodies. 
Responsive-to-immunotherapy-in-Epilepsy-and-Encephalopathy (RITE2) score ≥ 7 had 
96% sensitivity and 86% specificity for favorable initial immunotherapy 
response. Application of these models may optimize autoantibody evaluations and 
immunotherapeutic trials.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneuroim.2018.07.009
PMID: 30196836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Sep 8;2018:bcr2018226581. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2018-226581.

Goitre, lymphoma and the doughnut sign.

Sandal R(1), Mishra K(1), Jandial A(1), Lad D(1).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, 
Chandigarh, India.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-226581
PMCID: PMC6129054
PMID: 30196262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


107. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2018 Aug 30;40(4):501-509. doi: 
10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.10593.

[Magnetic Resonance Imaging Features and Their Pathological Mechanisms of 
Hashimoto's Encephalopathy].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang S(1), Wang XY(1), Liao WH(1), Xiao HQ(2), Zhou GF(1), Hu P(1), Peng XJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology,Xiangya Hospital,Central South University,Changsha 
410008,China.
(2)Department of Radiology,the Third Hospital of Changsha,Changsha 410000,China.

Objective To analyze the routine and functional magnetic resonance imaging(MRI) 
features and their potential pathological mechanisms of Hashimoto's 
encephalopathy(HE). Methods The clinical data and routine and functional MRI 
images of 30 HE patients who were treated in our center from January 2010 to 
April 2017 were retrospectively reviewed. Among them,15 patients were examined 
with contrast-enhanced MRI,16 with diffusion-weighed imaging(DWI),8 with 
magnetic resonance angiography,2 with magnetic resonance spectroscopy,and 1 with 
both arterial spin labeled perfusion imaging and diffusion tensor imaging. Seven 
patients had consecutive clinical and imaging data. The distribution,MRI 
signals,and functional MRI features of HE were analyzed. Results Among 30 HE 
patients,routine MRI showed negative results in 8 cases and abnormal findings in 
22 cases. Among 22 abnormal cases,9 were characterized by small cerebral 
vascular disease and 13 had non-specific abnormalities;of these 13 cases,12 had 
lesions mainly located at the supratentorial white matter,11 had multiple 
lesions,and 2 had lesions complicated with cerebellum atrophy. The lesions were 
focal or confluent,punctate or small patchy,showing abnormal signal intensity 
with iso-or hypo-intensity on T1-weighed imaging,hyper-intensity on both 
T2-weighed imaging and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery. Most of the lesions 
had no enhancement(12/15). Among 7 cases with abnormalities on 
DWI,hyper-intensity on DWI and hypo-intensity on apparent diffusion coefficient 
were seen in 3 sudden acute cases and hyper-intensity on DWI and increased 
apparent diffusion coefficient value in 4 sub-acute or slow onset cases. Three 
cases showed localized intracranial artery stenosis. In 2 cases,magnetic 
resonance spectroscopy revealed significant lower N-acetylaspartate peak,higher 
choline peak,and visible lactate peak or lipid peak. Of 7 cases with follow-up 
data,3 cases had no change,4 cases had changes including softening 
lesions(2/4),remitted and relapsed lesions(1/4),and rapid progression of brain 
atrophy with negative finding on the initial MRI(1/4). Conclusion Routine MRI 
combined with functional imaging can show the features of HE from different 
perspectives. Routine MRI shows multifocal or confluent lesions in the white 
matter,mostly without enhancement,while functional imaging may reveal 
pathological characteristics of different phases of acute or chronic ischemia 
and demyelinating changes of HE. Combined with clinical data,MRI can 
differentiate HE from other diseases based on routine and functional MRI 
appearances.

DOI: 10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.10593
PMID: 30193604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Cell Mol Med. 2018 Dec;22(12):6386-6390. doi: 10.1111/jcmm.13862. Epub
2018  Sep 6.

The potential contribution and role of a blood platelets in autoimmune thyroid 
diseases.

Tomczyńska M(1), Salata I(2), Bijak M(1), Saluk-Bijak J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental 
Protection, University of Lodz, Lodz, Poland.
(2)Multi-Med Plus' Medical Centre in Lodz, Lodz, Poland.

The blood platelets are multifunctional blood cells which are involved in the 
initiation of atheroma, endothelial dysfunction, and modulation of inflammatory 
and immune responses in the pathophysiology of many diseases. Because of their 
multifaceted pro-inflammatory activity, platelets may be involved in the 
pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs), such as Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis and Graves' disease. The aim of this study was to assess the level 
of activation and response ability of platelets in AITDs. We used the flow 
cytometry technique and kinetic measurement of aggregation to analyse platelet 
function immediately after blood collection and to demonstrate their activation 
in the circulation of patients with AITDs. We noted reorganization of platelet 
subpopulations (normal platelets, microparticles and aggregates) in AITDs, 
dependent on the degree of cell activation. We proved the elevated expression of 
the active form of integrin receptor GPIIb/IIIa, responsible for platelet 
aggregation, and in the kinetic test we confirmed the increased aggregation of 
platelets in different intracellular signal pathways (dependent on ADP, 
collagen, arachidonic acid). Our study demonstrates the high platelet activation 
level found in AITDs.

© 2018 The Authors. Journal of Cellular and Molecular Medicine published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd and Foundation for Cellular and Molecular Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jcmm.13862
PMCID: PMC6237575
PMID: 30188609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Br J Hosp Med (Lond). 2018 Sep 2;79(9):C134-C137. doi: 
10.12968/hmed.2018.79.9.C134.

Autoimmune encephalitis.

Midgley L(1), Kelleher E(2), Zandi MS(3).

Author information:
(1)Core Medical Trainee, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, 
London.
(2)Clinical Senior Lecturer, Department of Psychiatry, University College Cork 
and Consultant Liaison Psychiatrist, Department of Liaison Psychiatry, Cork 
University Hospital, Cork.
(3)Honorary Senior Lecturer, Department of Neuromuscular Diseases, Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London and Honorary Consultant 
Neurologist, National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, London WC1N 3BG.

DOI: 10.12968/hmed.2018.79.9.C134
PMID: 30188216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. BMJ Open. 2018 Sep 5;8(9):e020798. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-020798.

Association between Hashimoto's thyroiditis and cholelithiasis: a retrospective 
cohort study in Taiwan.

Chen CH(1)(2)(3)(4), Lin CL(5)(6), Kao CH(7)(8)(9).

Author information:
(1)Digestive Disease Center, Show Chwan Memorial Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan.
(2)Digestive Disease Center, Changbing Show-Chwan Memorial Hospital, Changhua 
County, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, Hungkuang University, Taichung, 
Taiwan.
(4)Chung Chou University of Science and Technology, Changhua County, Taiwan.
(5)Management Office for Health Data, China Medical University Hospital, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(6)College of Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(7)Graduate Institute of Biomedical Sciences and School of Medicine, College of 
Medicine, China Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(8)Department of Nuclear Medicine and PET Center, China Medical University 
Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan.
(9)Department of Bioinformatics and Medical Engineering, Asia University, 
Taichung, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the relation of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) to 
cholelithiasis and cholecystectomy in a retrospective population-based study.
SETTING: Cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: We identified 1268 patients aged ≥20 years with HT between 2000 
and 2010 as the study cohort.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients without HT were randomly 
selected from a database and propensity-matched with the study cohort at a 1:4 
ratio according to age, sex, comorbidities and year of the index date to measure 
the incidence of cholelithiasis and cholecystectomy.
RESULTS: The cumulative incidence of cholelithiasis was higher in the HT cohort 
than that in the non-HT cohort (log-rank test, p<0.001), with a 1.91-fold higher 
risk of choleithiasis (95% CI 1.58 to 2.33) after adjustment for comorbidities. 
The age-specific relative risk of cholelithiasis in the HT cohort was higher 
than that in the non-HT cohort for patients aged ≥50 years (adjusted HR 
(aHR)=2.59, 95% CI 1.33 to 5.03). The sex-specific relative risk of 
cholelithiasis in the HT cohort was higher than that in the non-HT cohort for 
women (aHR=1.99, 95% CI 1.63 to 2.44). Compared with those in the non-HT cohort, 
patients with HT without (aHR=1.95, 95% CI 1.53 to 2.49) and with (aHR=1.94, 
95% CI 1.51 to 2.49) thyroxine treatment were associated with a higher risk of 
cholelithiasis. Compared with those in the non-HT cohort, patients with HT had a 
higher risk of cholecystectomy (aHR=1.28, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.61).
CONCLUSIONS: Inability to obtain information on several potential confounding 
factors and misclassification of important covariates are the major limitations 
of the study. Our study indicates HT per se was associated with the development 
of cholelithiasis, which has been validated by the association between 
cholecystectomy and HT. Surveys and health education on cholelithiasis in women 
aged ≥50 years with HT should be considered by clinicians, and further 
prospective research should be done on this topic.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2018. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2017-020798
PMCID: PMC6129049
PMID: 30185568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


111. Pediatr Neurol. 2018 Sep;86:66-68. doi: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2018.07.016.
 Epub 2018 Aug 3.

Tocilizumab in Refractory Autoimmune Encephalitis: A Series of Pediatric Cases.

Randell RL(1), Adams AV(2), Van Mater H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North 
Carolina. Electronic address: rachel.randell@duke.edu.
(2)Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, North Carolina.
(3)Division of Pediatric Rheumatology, Department of Pediatrics, Duke 
University, Durham, North Carolina.

BACKGROUND: Autoimmune encephalitis can result in significant neurological and 
psychiatric morbidity and mortality in patients of all ages and often does not 
respond to standard therapies. Recent reports suggest efficacy of tocilizumab, a 
monoclonal antibody against interleukin 6, in refractory autoimmune 
encephalitis.
RESULTS: We describe three children with refractory autoimmune encephalitis who 
experienced a robust, immediate clinical response following treatment with 
tocilizumab.
CONCLUSION: These findings support the efficacy and short-term safety of 
tocilizumab as a third-line treatment for refractory autoimmune encephalitis in 
children.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pediatrneurol.2018.07.016
PMID: 30177347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Cytotherapy. 2018 Oct;20(10):1247-1258. doi: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2018.04.001.
Epub  2018 Aug 31.

Therapeutic effect of human amniotic epithelial cells in murine models of 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis and Systemic lupus erythematosus.

Tan B(1), Yuan W(1), Li J(1), Yang P(1), Ge Z(2), Liu J(1), Qiu C(1), Zhu X(1), 
Qiu C(1), Lai D(3), Guo L(4), Wang L(5), Yu L(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetics and Regenerative Biology, College of Life Sciences, 
Hangzhou, China; College of Life Sciences-iCell Biotechnology Regenerative 
Biomedicine Laboratory, Hangzhou, China; Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative 
Medicine, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Institute of Materia Medica, Zhejiang Academy of Medical Sciences, Hangzhou, 
Zhejiang 310013, China.
(3)International Peace Maternity and Child Health Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai 200030, China.
(4)Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for 
Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 200031, China; 
Shanghai iCELL Biotechnology Co Ltd, Shanghai 200333, China.
(5)Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative Medicine, Hangzhou, China; The Second 
Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
310058, China. Electronic address: 2196042@zju.edu.cn.
(6)Institute of Genetics and Regenerative Biology, College of Life Sciences, 
Hangzhou, China; College of Life Sciences-iCell Biotechnology Regenerative 
Biomedicine Laboratory, Hangzhou, China; Center for Stem Cell and Regenerative 
Medicine, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: luyangyu@zju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND AIMS: The chronic inflammation of autoimmune diseases develops 
repetitive localized destruction or systemic disorders, represented by 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 
respectively. Currently, there are no efficient ways to treat these autoimmune 
diseases. Therefore, it is critically important to explore new therapeutic 
strategies. The aim of this study was to investigate the therapeutic efficacy of 
human amniotic epithelial cells (hAECs) in murine models of HT and SLE.
METHODS: Experimental autoimmune thyroiditis (EAT) was induced in female CBA/J 
mice by immunization with porcine thyroglobulin (pTg). hAECs were intravenously 
administered at different time points during the disease course. MRL-Faslpr 
mice, a strain with spontaneously occurring SLE, were intravenously administered 
hAECs when their sera were positive for both anti-nuclear antibodies (ANAs) and 
anti-double-stranded DNA (anti-dsDNA) antibodies. Two weeks after the last cell 
transplantation, blood and tissue samples were collected for histological 
examination and immune system analysis.
RESULTS: hAECs prevented lymphocytes infiltration into the thyroid and improved 
the damage of thyroid follicular in EAT mice. Correspondingly, hAECs 
administration reduced anti-thyroglobulin antibodies (TGAb), anti-thyroid 
peroxidase antibodies (TPOAb) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels. SLE 
mice injected with hAECs appeared negative for ANAs and anti-dsDNA antibodies 
and showed reduced immunoglobulin profiles. Mechanically, hAECs modulated the 
immune cells balance in EAT and SLE mice, by downregulating the ratios of 
Th17/Treg cells in both EAT and SLE mice and upregulating the proportion of B10 
cells in EAT mice. This was confirmed by in vitro assay, in which hAECs 
inhibited the activation of EAT mice-derived splenocytes. Moreover, hAECs 
improved the cytokine environment in both EAT and SLE mice, by suppressing the 
levels of IL-17A and IFN-γ and enhancing TGF-β.
CONCLUSION: These results demonstrated the immunoregulatory effect of hAECs for 
inflammation inhibition and injury recovery in HT and SLE murine models. The 
current study may provide a novel therapeutic strategy for these autoimmune 
diseases in clinic.

Copyright © 2018 International Society for Cellular Therapy. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcyt.2018.04.001
PMID: 30174233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Brain Dev. 2019 Feb;41(2):217-220. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2018.08.004. Epub
 2018 Aug 28.

An unusual manifestation of Sjögren syndrome encephalitis.

Iwai K(1), Amo K(2), Kuki I(3), Fukuoka M(3), Kim K(3), Yamairi C(2), Togawa 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Osaka City General Hospital, 
Osaka, Japan. Electronic address: iwai-k@ncchd.go.jp.
(2)Department of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Osaka City General Hospital, 
Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Osaka City General Hospital, Osaka, Japan.

Sjögren syndrome (SS) is a systemic inflammatory and autoimmune disease 
characterized by systemic disorders of the exocrine glands, predominantly the 
salivary and lacrimal glands. Here, we report a 4-year-old boy who presented 
with the repetition of generalized tonic-clonic seizures for 1-2 min. Initially, 
he was diagnosed with idiopathic autoimmune encephalitis and was treated with 
steroids. He was eventually diagnosed with SS based on the examination results, 
such as inflammatory cell infiltration into the minor salivary glands and 
positive serum anti-SSA/Ro antibody. Although central nervous system 
complications are rare in pediatric SS, this condition should be considered in 
the differential diagnosis when a patient presents with idiopathic autoimmune 
encephalitis of unknown cause. Furthermore, SS can occur in relatively young 
children and can present without imaging abnormalities.

Copyright © 2018 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2018.08.004
PMID: 30170935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2019 Jan;127(1):23-28. doi:
10.1055/a-0669-9309.  Epub 2018 Aug 27.

The Relationship Between Statin Action On Thyroid Autoimmunity And Vitamin D 
Status: A Pilot Study.

Krysiak R(1), Szkróbka W(1), Okopień B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Both vitamin D preparations and high-dose statin therapy were found 
to reduce thyroid antibody titers.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to assess whether vitamin D status 
determines the effect of statin therapy on thyroid autoimmunity.
METHODS: The study population consisted of 39 euthyroid women with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis and moderate or moderately high cardiovascular risk divided into two 
groups: women with vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency (group A; n=19) and 
women with normal vitamin D status (group B, n=20). All patients received 
atorvastatin therapy (20-40 mg daily) for the following 6 months. Plasma lipids, 
circulating levels of thyrotropin, free thyroid hormones, prolactin and 
25-hydroxyvitamin D, titers of thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies, 
as well as Jostel's, the SPINA-GT and the SPINA-GD indices were assessed at the 
beginning and at the end of the study.
RESULTS: The study completed all women. At baseline, with the exception of 
25-hydroxyvitamin D, there were no significant differences between both study 
groups in plasma lipids, circulating hormone levels and titers of thyroid 
peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies. Despite improving plasma lipids in both 
study groups, atorvastatin reduced thyroid antibody titers only in women with 
normal vitamin D status. Moreover, in this group of patients, atorvastatin 
increased the SPINA-GT index. Circulating levels of the measured hormones, 
Jostel's thyrotropin index and the SPINA-GD index remained at a similar level 
throughout the study.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study suggest that the effect of atorvastatin 
therapy on thyroid autoimmunity depends on vitamin D status.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0669-9309
PMID: 30149415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of interest has been declared by the 
authors.


115. Intern Med. 2019 Jan 15;58(2):313-314. doi:
10.2169/internalmedicine.0898-18.  Epub 2018 Aug 24.

A Remarkable Uptake of FDG in Huge Mediastinal Hashimoto's Goiter.

Oka K(1), Hosoya T(2), Taira N(3), Otsuka F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Medicine, Okayama University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Japan.
(2)Japanese Red Cross Society Himeji Hospital, Japan.
(3)Department of Breast and Endocrine Surgery, Okayama University Graduate 
School of Medicine, Dentistry and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Japan.

DOI: 10.2169/internalmedicine.0898-18
PMCID: PMC6378161
PMID: 30146569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors state that they have no Conflict of 
Interest (COI).


116. Neuron. 2018 Oct 10;100(1):91-105.e9. doi: 10.1016/j.neuron.2018.07.048.
Epub  2018 Aug 23.

Human Autoantibodies against the AMPA Receptor Subunit GluA2 Induce Receptor 
Reorganization and Memory Dysfunction.

Haselmann H(1), Mannara F(2), Werner C(3), Planagumà J(2), Miguez-Cabello F(4), 
Schmidl L(5), Grünewald B(1), Petit-Pedrol M(2), Kirmse K(5), Classen J(6), 
Demir F(7), Klöcker N(8), Soto D(4), Doose S(9), Dalmau J(10), Hallermann S(11), 
Geis C(12).

Author information:
(1)Hans-Berger Department of Neurology, Jena University Hospital, Am Klinikum 1, 
07747 Jena, Germany; Center for Sepsis Control and Care (CSCC), Jena University 
Hospital, Am Klinikum 1, 07747 Jena, Germany.
(2)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital 
Clínic, Universitat de Barcelona, 08036 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Hans-Berger Department of Neurology, Jena University Hospital, Am Klinikum 1, 
07747 Jena, Germany; Department of Biotechnology and Biophysics, Biocenter, 
University of Würzburg, Am Hubland, 97074 Würzburg, Germany.
(4)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital 
Clínic, Universitat de Barcelona, 08036 Barcelona, Spain; Laboratori de 
Neurofisiologia, Departament de Biomedicina, Facultat de Medicina i Ciències de 
la Salut, Institut de Neurociències, Universitat de Barcelona, 08036 Barcelona, 
Spain.
(5)Hans-Berger Department of Neurology, Jena University Hospital, Am Klinikum 1, 
07747 Jena, Germany.
(6)Department of Neurology, University of Leipzig, Liebigstrasse 20, 04103 
Leipzig, Germany.
(7)Institute of Neural and Sensory Physiology, Medical Faculty, University of 
Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany; Forschungszentrum Jülich, Central Institute for 
Engineering, Electronics and Analytics (ZEA-3), Wilhelm-Johnen-Strasse, 52425 
Jülich, Germany.
(8)Institute of Neural and Sensory Physiology, Medical Faculty, University of 
Düsseldorf, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(9)Department of Biotechnology and Biophysics, Biocenter, University of 
Würzburg, Am Hubland, 97074 Würzburg, Germany.
(10)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital 
Clínic, Universitat de Barcelona, 08036 Barcelona, Spain; Department of 
Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Institució 
Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avançats (ICREA), Passeig de Lluís Companys, 23, 
08010 Barcelona, Spain; Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red Enfermedades 
Raras (CIBERER), (Instituto Carlos III, Madrid), Av. Monforte de Lemos, 3-5 
Pabellón 11, 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(11)Carl-Ludwig-Institute for Physiology, Medical Faculty, University of 
Leipzig, Liebigstrasse 27, 04103 Leipzig, Germany.
(12)Hans-Berger Department of Neurology, Jena University Hospital, Am Klinikum 
1, 07747 Jena, Germany; Center for Sepsis Control and Care (CSCC), Jena 
University Hospital, Am Klinikum 1, 07747 Jena, Germany. Electronic address: 
christian.geis@med.uni-jena.de.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Neurosci. 2018 Oct;19(10):580-581. doi: 10.1038/s41583-018-0060-x.

AMPA receptors are essential for fast excitatory transmission in the CNS. 
Autoantibodies to AMPA receptors have been identified in humans with autoimmune 
encephalitis and severe defects of hippocampal function. Here, combining 
electrophysiology and high-resolution imaging with neuronal culture preparations 
and passive-transfer models in wild-type and GluA1-knockout mice, we analyze how 
specific human autoantibodies against the AMPA receptor subunit GluA2 affect 
receptor function and composition, synaptic transmission, and plasticity. 
Anti-GluA2 antibodies induce receptor internalization and a reduction of 
synaptic GluA2-containing AMPARs followed by compensatory ryanodine 
receptor-dependent incorporation of synaptic non-GluA2 AMPARs. Furthermore, 
application of human pathogenic anti-GluA2 antibodies to mice impairs long-term 
synaptic plasticity in vitro and affects learning and memory in vivo. Our 
results identify a specific immune-neuronal rearrangement of AMPA receptor 
subunits, providing a framework to explain disease symptoms.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2018.07.048
PMID: 30146304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Clin Radiol. 2018 Dec;73(12):1059.e9-1059.e15. doi:
10.1016/j.crad.2018.07.099.  Epub 2018 Aug 20.

Assessment of paediatric Hashimoto's thyroiditis using superb microvascular 
imaging.

Bayramoglu Z(1), Kandemirli SG(2), Caliskan E(3), Yilmaz R(3), Kardelen AD(4), 
Poyrazoglu S(4), Bas F(4), Adaletli I(2), Darendeliler F(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Istanbul Medical Faculty, Istanbul University, Fatih 
Istanbul, Turkey. Electronic address: incezuhal@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Radiology, Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, Istanbul University, 
Fatih Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Radiology, Istanbul Medical Faculty, Istanbul University, Fatih 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Department of Pediatric Endocrinology, Istanbul Medical Faculty, Istanbul 
University, Fatih Istanbul, Turkey.

AIM: To evaluate the role of superb microvascular imaging along with greyscale 
and Doppler imaging for thyroid gland evaluation in Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) 
versus control subjects.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included 33 healthy volunteers with normal 
ultrasound and laboratory findings and 70 patients with HT based on laboratory 
and sonographic findings who were undergoing follow-up and receiving medical 
treatment. HT patients were classified based on the modification of the scheme 
proposed by Sostre and Reyes that incorporates the extent of hypoechoic foci or 
patchy infiltration as grade A (foci involving <50% of the gland) and B (foci 
involving >50% of the gland). Thyroid volume, mean resistive indices, 
peak-systolic and end-diastolic velocities based on Doppler imaging, and 
vascularity index via superb microvascular imaging were obtained using a Canon 
Aplio 500 ultrasound device using a linear 10-14 MHz transducer.
RESULTS: Patients with HT had significantly higher median thyroid volume and 
peak-systolic velocities (7.32 ml and 19 cm/s, respectively) compared to control 
subjects (4.62 ml and 16 cm/s, respectively). HT patients had significantly 
higher median vascularity index (VI; 13.5%) compared to control subjects 
(7.95%). A significant fair positive correlation with VI and anti-thyroglobulin 
antibody levels (r=0.356, p<0.05) and significant moderate positive correlation 
with VI and anti-thyroid peroxidase antibody levels (r=0.503, p<0.05) were 
found. In HT diagnosis, the optimal VI cut-off value was 10.58% with a 
sensitivity and specificity of 67.1% and 90%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Superb microvascular imaging appears to allow assessment of subtle 
vascularity changes in early HT stages that cannot be detected by Doppler 
parameters. This technique demonstrates excellent visualization of the 
microvascular structures and quantitative assessment based on a novel parameter 
such as VI.

Copyright © 2018 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crad.2018.07.099
PMID: 30139503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2018 Nov;34(8):e3055. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.3055. Epub
2018  Aug 31.

Evidence of diabetes-specific autoimmunity in obese subjects with normal glucose 
tolerance.

Tiberti C(1), Zampetti S(1), Capoccia D(1), Campagna G(1), Lucantoni F(1), 
Anastasi E(2), Pallotta L(3), Panimolle F(1), Leto G(1), Lenzi A(1), Leonetti 
F(1), Buzzetti R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, "Sapienza" University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine, "Sapienza" University, Rome, Italy.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine and Medical Specialties, "Sapienza" 
University, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Recently, significant attention has been paid to the possible 
activation of an autoimmune response in the presence of obesity. The aim of this 
study was to evaluate and compare the frequencies of autoantibodies typical of 
autoimmune diabetes in obese patients with normal glucose tolerance (NGT), obese 
patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D) and controls. We also evaluated the presence 
of immunoreactivity to Hashimoto's thyroiditis and autoimmune gastritis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Consecutive sera from obese patients, 444 with NGT, 322 
with T2D, and 212 controls were analysed by radioimmunoassay or enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay for glutamic acid decarboxylase, protein tyrosine 
phosphatase islet antigen-2 (IA-2)IC and IA-2(256-760) , islet beta-cell zinc 
cation transporter (ZnT8), thyroid peroxidase, and anti-parietal cell 
autoantibodies.
RESULTS: Altogether the presence of organ-specific autoantibodies was 
significantly more frequent in obese patients with NGT (128/444, 28.5%) and 
obese with T2D (79/322, 24.5%) than in controls (36/212, 17%; P = 0.002). 
Thyroid peroxidase immunoreactivity was prevalent in all groups of subjects 
investigated. The frequencies of diabetes-specific autoantibodies were slightly 
higher in obese patients with NGT (20/444, 4.5%) than in obese with T2D (12/322, 
3.7%) and controls (4/212, 1.9%). The anti IA-2(256-760) was the most frequent 
islet autoantibody in obese subjects with NGT (14/20, 70%).
CONCLUSIONS: We observed significant evidence of immunoreactivity specific to 
diabetes, thyroid, and gastric-parietal cells in obese patients with NGT. The 
relatively higher frequency of the diabetes-related IA-2(256-760) autoantibodies 
in obese patients with NGT may suggest that this autoantibody could be 
associated with obesity the presence of obesity itself.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.3055
PMID: 30129269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Indian J Pediatr. 2019 Feb;86(2):180-182. doi: 10.1007/s12098-018-2766-1.
Epub  2018 Aug 20.

Auto-immune Thyroiditis in an Infant Masquerading as Congenital Nephrotic 
Syndrome.

Jondhale SN(1), Save SU(1), Koppikar RG(1), Bavdekar SB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, TN Medical College and BYL Nair Charitable 
Hospital, Dr. AL Nair Road, Mumbai Central, Mumbai, 400008, India.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, TN Medical College and BYL Nair Charitable 
Hospital, Dr. AL Nair Road, Mumbai Central, Mumbai, 400008, India. 
sandeep.bavdekar@gmail.com.

A seven-months-old girl under treatment for pneumonia presented with generalized 
edema, decreased urinary output and was found to have hypertension, 
muco-cutaneous fungal infection and pulmonary hypertension. Investigations 
revealed that she had heavy proteinuria, hypertriglyceridemia, hypoalbuminemia 
and elevated levels of free T3 and T4 with suppression of TSH levels in the 
serum. A diagnosis of autoimmune thyroiditis (AT) in thyrotoxic phase was made 
on the basis of clinical presentation and presence of anti-TPO antibodies and 
reduced uptake in thyroid (technetium) scintigraphy. The child responded to 
carbimazole therapy and propranolol. The case is presented to remind 
pediatricians about the rare occurrence of auto-immune thyroiditis in infancy 
with rare complications such as nephrotic syndrome and pulmonary hypertension.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-018-2766-1
PMID: 30128632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. J Natl Med Assoc. 2018 Aug;110(4):384-390. doi: 10.1016/j.jnma.2017.07.007.
Epub  2017 Aug 7.

An Evaluation of Clinicopathological Factors Effective in the Development of 
Central and Lateral Lymph Node Metastasis in Papillary Thyroid Cancer.

Aydin Buyruk B(1), Kebapci N(1), Yorulmaz G(2), Buyruk A(3), Kebapci M(4).

Author information:
(1)Eskisehir Osmangazi University Medical Faculty Departments of Endocrinology, 
Turkey.
(2)Eskisehir Osmangazi University Medical Faculty Departments of Endocrinology, 
Turkey. Electronic address: goknuryorulmaz@hotmail.com.
(3)Eskisehir State Hospital Division of, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, 
Eskisehir, Turkey.
(4)Eskisehir Osmangazi University Medical Faculty Department of Radiology and 
Endocrinology, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION AND AIM: Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) constitutes more than 90% 
of newly emerging differentiated thyroid cancers. Lymph node metastasis is often 
seen in PTC. There is a high risk of central metastasis in the presence of 
clinicopathological factors such as extrathyroidal extension, multifocality and 
lymphovascular invasion. The aim of this study is to evaluate the 
clinicopathological features that are effective in the development of lymph node 
metastasis.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A retrospective examination was made of the records of 
patients diagnosed with papillary thyroid cancer and followed up in our clinic. 
Patients with and without lymph node metastasis were compared in respect of 
demographic features such as age, gender, pathology, histopathology, tumor size, 
lymph node metastasis, lymphovascular invasion, multifocality, capsule invasion, 
extrathyroidal extension and bilaterality.
RESULTS: Lymph node metastasis was determined in 52 of 419 papillary thyroid 
cancers. In the logistic regression analysis, a statistically significant 
relationship was determined between cervical lymph node metastasis and age <45 
years (p < 0.001, OR:4.193), lymphovascular invasion (p < 0.001, OR:7.762), 
capsule invasion (p < 0.002, OR:3.054), extrathyroidal extension (p < 0.001, 
OR:6.450) and bilaterality (p < 0.001, OR: 0.217).
CONCLUSION: The risk of cervical lymph node metastasis was determined to be high 
in the presence of clinicopathological factors such as extrathyroidal extension, 
multifocality and lymphovascular invasion. Although lymph node metastasis does 
not clinically develop in all patients, knowing the risk factors related to 
lymph node metastasis can contribute to the evaluation of prophylactic central 
neck dissection in high-risk patients and follow-up of the patient in respect of 
recurrence.

Copyright © 2017 National Medical Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnma.2017.07.007
PMID: 30126565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Endocr Pathol. 2018 Dec;29(4):317-323. doi: 10.1007/s12022-018-9540-9.

Papillary Thyroid Carcinoma Emerging from Hashimoto Thyroiditis Demonstrates 
Increased PD-L1 Expression, Which Persists with Metastasis.

Lubin D(1), Baraban E(2), Lisby A(2), Jalali-Farahani S(2), Zhang P(2), Livolsi 
V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 6 
Founders, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA. 
Daniel.Lubin@uphs.upenn.edu.
(2)Department of Pathology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 6 
Founders, 3400 Spruce Street, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA.

There is evidence that programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) is expressed by thyroid 
follicular epithelium in thyroiditis, but the role of PD-L1 in papillary thyroid 
carcinoma (PTC) is poorly understood. We aimed to determine whether (1) the 
presence of background chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT) or Hashimoto 
thyroiditis (HT) influenced the expression of PD-L1 in benign follicular 
epithelium or in PTC and (2) if PD-L1 expression in PTC persisted with lymph 
node metastasis. We performed immunohistochemistry (IHC) for PD-L1 on 
formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissues. We first studied five cases of 
unremarkable thyroid, five cases of CLT, and five cases of HT without carcinoma. 
We subsequently performed PD-L1 IHC on ten cases of PTC arising in normal 
thyroid, ten cases of PTC arising in CLT, and ten cases of PTC arising in HT. 
Whenever available, we evaluated corresponding synchronous lymph node metastases 
from all cases for PD-L1 expression. PD-L1 expression was increased (10-90%) in 
all five cases of HT, only minimal expressed (1-5%) in two of five cases of CLT, 
and not expressed in five cases of unremarkable thyroid. PTC arising in normal 
thyroid or CLT nearly uniformly lacked PD-L1 expression. In contrast, PTC 
arising in HT demonstrated significant PD-L1 expression, which persisted in 
corresponding lymph node metastases. Background non-neoplastic follicular 
epithelium in the HT cases also demonstrated PD-L1 expression. Thyroid 
follicular epithelium in HT demonstrates increased PD-L1 expression, and PTC 
arising in a background of HT shows increased PD-L1 expression, which is 
retained with metastasis.

DOI: 10.1007/s12022-018-9540-9
PMID: 30121940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp (Engl Ed). 2019 Jul-Aug;70(4):229-234. doi: 
10.1016/j.otorri.2018.06.001. Epub 2018 Aug 11.

l-Thyroxine does not prevent immunemediated sensorineural hearing loss in 
autoimmune thyroid diseases.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Rodríguez-Valiente A(1), Álvarez-Montero Ó(2), Górriz-Gil C(2), García-Berrocal 
JR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Puerta de Hierro University Hospital, 
Majadahonda, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: arova777@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Puerta de Hierro University Hospital, 
Majadahonda, Madrid, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: This is the first report dealing with immune-mediated inner ear 
disease (IMIED) hearing loss in a group of patients affected with autoimmune 
thyroid disease (AITD), whose treatment required corticosteroids, despite being 
treated with levothyroxine. Immunopathology linking the inner ear and the 
thyroid gland is also presented.
PATIENTS: A total of 220 patients were selected with sensorineural hearing loss 
(SNHL) of causes other than presbycusis. Audiometry was performed and pure tone 
average was calculated before and after treatment with corticosteroids.
RESULTS: Eighty-four (84) patients had SNHL of autoimmune origin, and 15 
patients were diagnosed with AITD (Hashimoto's disease). Bilateral hearing loss 
was observed in 10 patients (66.5%). Sudden sensorineural hearing loss was the 
most frequent clinical form of presentation. Nine patients showed a hearing 
recovery greater than 10dB after corticosteroid treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Acquired hypothyroidism is thought to affect hearing due to 
different mechanisms. Although specific hormonal therapy may improve peripheral 
or central auditory disorders associated with hypothyroidism, the presence of 
IMIED in AITD patients requires another approach. Altered immune regulatory 
mechanisms involving Treg cells and CD4+CD45RO cells have been suggested in 
patients with AITD and IMIED. In the present study, although all the patients 
with hypothyroidism and subclinical hypothyroidism were being treated with 
levothyroxine, immune-mediated hearing loss was observed. Therapy with 
corticosteroids could achieve hearing recovery. Since inner ear and thyroid 
gland share possible antigen targets, we highlight the existence of IMIED in 
AITD patients and the importance of implementing appropriate therapy with 
corticosteroids.

Copyright © 2018 Sociedad Española de Otorrinolaringología y Cirugía de Cabeza y 
Cuello. Publicado por Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otorri.2018.06.001
PMID: 30107874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Saudi Med J. 2018 Aug;39(8):829-833. doi: 10.15537/smj.2018.8.22437.

Bilateral adrenal hemorrhage in antiphospholipid syndrome. Anticoagulation for 
the treatment of hemorrhage.

Aldaajani H(1), Albahrani S, Saleh K, Alghanim K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, King Fahad Military Medical Complex, 
Dhahran, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. E-mail. hano.ibrahim@gmail.com.

A 43-year-old man with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and previous thromboembolic 
events treated with warfarin for 6 months, presented with right flank pain 
accompanied with vomiting, dizziness, and altered mental status 2 weeks after 
discontinuation of warfarin. His clinical examination findings were 
unremarkable. Routine blood work showed lymphopenia, thrombocytopenia, and 
hypoosmolar hyponatremia. Random serum cortisol level was low (14 nmol/L). 
Computed tomography scan of the abdomen revealed bilateral bulky heterogeneous 
suprarenal gland surrounded by fat stranding representing adrenal hemorrhage. He 
was treated for acute adrenal crisis and subsequently started on hydrocortisone 
and fludrocortisone, with significant clinical improvement. His diagnosis was 
secondary antiphospholipid syndrome (APS) to systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). 
Bilateral adrenal thrombosis lead to hemorrhage in the adrenals as a paradoxical 
effect after warfarin cessation and primarily caused by APS. Bilateral adrenal 
bleeding should lead to the suspicion of thrombophilic disorders, such as APS, 
with cautious anticoagulation as the treatment of choice.

DOI: 10.15537/smj.2018.8.22437
PMCID: PMC6194995
PMID: 30106422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. J Autoimmun. 2018 Nov;94:156-165. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2018.07.019. Epub 2018
Aug  10.

Mutations of deubiquitinase OTUD1 are associated with autoimmune disorders.

Lu D(1), Song J(2), Sun Y(2), Qi F(2), Liu L(1), Jin Y(1), McNutt MA(1), Yin 
Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Systems Biomedicine, Peking University Health Science Center, 
Beijing, 100191, PR China.
(2)Institute of Systems Biomedicine, Peking University Health Science Center, 
Beijing, 100191, PR China; Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing, 100191, PR China.
(3)Institute of Systems Biomedicine, Peking University Health Science Center, 
Beijing, 100191, PR China; Department of Pathology, School of Basic Medical 
Sciences, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing, 100191, PR China; 
Peking-Tsinghua Center for Life Sciences, Peking University Health Science 
Center, Beijing, 100191, PR China. Electronic address: yinyuxin@hsc.pku.edu.cn.

Dysregulation of innate immunity accompanied by excessive interferon production 
contributes to autoimmune disease. However, the mechanism by which the immune 
response is modulated in autoimmune disorders is largely unknown. Here we 
identified loss-of-function mutations of OTUD1 associated with multiple 
autoimmune diseases. Under inflammatory conditions, inducible OTUD1 acts as an 
immune checkpoint and blocks RIG-I-like receptors signaling. As a 
deubiquitinase, OTUD1 directly interacts with transcription factor IRF3 and 
removes the K63-linked poly-ubiquitin chains on IRF3 Lysine 98, which inhibits 
IRF3 nuclear translocation and transcriptional activity. In contrast, OTUD1 
mutants impair its suppressive effects on IRF3 via attenuating the OTUD1 
deubiquinase activity or its association with IRF3. Moreover, we found FOXO3 
signaling is required for OTUD1 induction upon antigenic stimulation. Our data 
demonstrate that OTUD1 is involved in maintaining immune homeostasis and 
loss-of-function mutations of OTUD1 enhance the immune response and are 
associated with autoimmunity.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2018.07.019
PMID: 30100102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Nurs Clin North Am. 2018 Sep;53(3):319-334. doi: 10.1016/j.cnur.2018.04.002.

Immunosuppressive/Autoimmune Disorders.

Richard-Eaglin A(1), Smallheer BA(2).

Author information:
(1)Healthcare in Adult Populations Division, Duke University School of Nursing, 
DUMC 3322, 307 Trent Drive, Durham, NC 27710, USA. Electronic address: 
angela.richard-eaglin@duke.edu.
(2)Adult-Gerontology Acute Care Nurse Practitioner Program, Duke University 
School of Nursing, 307 Trent Drive, Durham, NC 27710, USA.

Autoimmune disorders are a category of diseases in which the immune system 
attacks healthy cells as a result of a dysfunction of the acquired immune 
system. Clinical presentation and diagnosis are disease specific and often 
correspond with the degree of inflammation, as well as the systems involved. 
Treatment varies based on the specific disease, its stage of presentation, and 
patient symptoms. The primary goal of treatment is to decrease inflammation, 
minimize symptoms, and lessen the potential for relapse. Graves disease, 
Hashimoto thyroiditis, rheumatoid arthritis, Crohn disease, ulcerative colitis, 
systemic lupus erythematosus, and multiple sclerosis are discussed in this 
article.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cnur.2018.04.002
PMID: 30099999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Transl Psychiatry. 2018 Aug 10;8(1):148. doi: 10.1038/s41398-018-0214-7.

Intravenous immunoglobulin for the treatment of autoimmune encephalopathy in 
children with autism.

Connery K(1), Tippett M(1), Delhey LM(1), Rose S(1), Slattery JC(2), Kahler 
SG(1), Hahn J(3)(4), Kruger U(3), Cunningham MW(5), Shimasaki C(6), Frye 
RE(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, AR, 77205, USA.
(2)BioROSA Technologies Inc, San Francisco, CA, 94103, USA.
(3)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, 
NY, 12180, USA.
(4)Center for Biotechnology & Interdisciplinary Studies, Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute, Troy, NY, 12180, USA.
(5)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Oklahoma Health 
Sciences Center, Oklahoma City, OK, 73104, USA.
(6)Moleculera Labs, Inc, Oklahoma City, OK, USA.
(7)Barrow Neurological Institute at Phoenix Children's Hospital, Phoenix, AZ, 
USA. rfrye@phoenixchildrens.com.
(8)Department of Child Health, University of Arizona College of Medicine - 
Phoenix, Phoenix, AZ, USA. rfrye@phoenixchildrens.com.

Comment in
    Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Jan 31;9(1):49. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0413-x.
    Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Apr 8;9(1):129. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0462-1.
    Transl Psychiatry. 2019 Sep 10;9(1):224. doi: 10.1038/s41398-019-0562-y.

The identification of brain-targeted autoantibodies in children with autism 
spectrum disorder (ASD) raises the possibility of autoimmune encephalopathy 
(AIE). Intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) is effective for AIE and for some 
children with ASD. Here, we present the largest case series of children with ASD 
treated with IVIG. Through an ASD clinic, we screened 82 children for AIE, 80 of 
them with ASD. IVIG was recommended for 49 (60%) with 31 (38%) receiving the 
treatment under our care team. The majority of parents (90%) reported some 
improvement with 71% reporting improvements in two or more symptoms. In a subset 
of patients, Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC) and/or Social Responsiveness 
Scale (SRS) were completed before and during IVIG treatment. Statistically 
significant improvement occurred in the SRS and ABC. The antidopamine D2L 
receptor antibody, the anti-tubulin antibody and the ratio of the antidopamine 
D2L to D1 receptor antibodies were related to changes in the ABC. The Cunningham 
Panel predicted SRS, ABC, parent-based treatment responses with good accuracy. 
Adverse effects were common (62%) but mostly limited to the infusion period. 
Only two (6%) patients discontinued IVIG because of adverse effects. Overall, 
our open-label case series provides support for the possibility that some 
children with ASD may benefit from IVIG. Given that adverse effects are not 
uncommon, IVIG treatment needs to be considered cautiously. We identified immune 
biomarkers in select IVIG responders but larger cohorts are needed to study 
immune biomarkers in more detail. Our small open-label exploratory trial 
provides evidence supporting a neuroimmune subgroup in patients with ASD.

DOI: 10.1038/s41398-018-0214-7
PMCID: PMC6086890
PMID: 30097568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Kathleen Connery, Leanna Delhey, John 
autoantibody have no conflicts of interest to declare. Craig Shimasaki is the 
President & Chief Executive Officer and Madeleine W. Cunningham is the Chief 
Scientific Officer of Moleculera Labs, Inc., which provides the Cunningham 
Panel™, an immune panel that is used in this study. Richard E Frye is on the 
Scientific Advisory Board of Iliad Neurosciences, Inc, which performs the folate 
receptor alpha autoantibody which was used in some patients in this study.


127. Psychosomatics. 2019 Jul-Aug;60(4):416-420. doi: 10.1016/j.psym.2018.07.007.
 Epub 2018 Jul 20.

Autoimmune Encephalopathy Beyond Anti-NMDAR Encephalitis: The Case of an 
Adolescent Male with AntiAcetylcholine Receptor Ganglionic Neuronal Antibody 
Encephalitis.

Osuagwu FC(1), Mohiuddin SS(2), Malas N(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Michigan Medical School, MI. Electronic address: 
oferdnan@med.umich.edu.
(2)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Michigan Medical School, MI.
(3)Division of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, 
University of Michigan Medical School, MI; Department of Pediatrics and 
Communicable Diseases, University of Michigan Medical School, MI.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psym.2018.07.007
PMID: 30093243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2018 Aug;143(16):1174-1180. doi:
10.1055/s-0043-121381.  Epub 2018 Aug 7.

[Osteoarthropathies and Myopathies associated with Disorders of the Thyroid 
Endocrine System].

[Article in German]

Nehls V.

Triiodothyronine (T3) is a key regulator of bone, muscle and articular 
cartilage. Musculoskeletal symptoms of hyperthyroidism include loss of bone mass 
finally leading to osteoporosis and weakness of the skeletal musculature. 
Hypothyroidism on the other side frequently leads to muscle stiffness and 
cramping and, occasionally, results in rhabdomyolysis. To prevent terminal 
differentiation of chondrocytes with consecutive cartilage degeneration, 
cartilage probably depends on exact regulation of local T3 availability by the 
intracellular deiodinase system. Recent findings underline the importance of 
local T3 generation by deiodinase type 2 and support the existence of local 
hypo- or hyperthyroidism.In the review, the implications of the recent 
literature for current understanding of osteoarthritis, myopathies and diabetic 
osteoarthropathy will be discussed. Further emphasis will be placed on the 
association of autoimmune thyroiditis with musculoskeletal diseases and 
fibromyalgia.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-121381
PMID: 30086563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


129. Curr Pharm Biotechnol. 2018;19(7):581-589. doi: 
10.2174/1389201019666180802142803.

The Role of Transforming Growth Factor-β1 Gene Polymorphism and Its Serum Levels 
in Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Stanilova SA(1), Gerenova JB(2)(3), Miteva LD(1), Manolova IM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Immunology and Medical Genetics, Medical 
Faculty, Trakia University, Stara Zagora, Bulgaria.
(2)Clinic of Endocrinology, University Hospital, Stara Zagora, Bulgaria.
(3)Department of Propeudetics of Internal Diseases, Medical Faculty, Trakia 
University, Stara Zagora, Bulgaria.

BACKGROUND: TGF-β1 gene (TGFB1) is one of the target genes involved in genetic 
predisposition to autoimmune diseases, particularly Hashimoto's thyroiditis 
(HT).
OBJECTIVE: In the present study, we attempted to investigate whether -509C/T SNP 
(rs1800469) in the promoter of TGFB1 is associated with the genetic 
susceptibility and clinical characteristics of Bulgarian patients with HT. We 
also analyzed serum TGF-β1 levels in different stages of the disease and its 
association with the -509C/T polymorphism in the TGFB1 promoter.
METHODS: The study recruited 121 female out-patients with autoimmune thyroiditis 
and 250 agematched healthy women (HC). Genotyping of the rs1800469 was performed 
by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)-PCR assay. The serum 
concentrations of latent acid-activated TGF-β1 protein were determined by the 
quantitative sandwich ELISA method.
RESULTS: Upon testing different types of inheritance, a significant risk was 
found for heterozygotes (CT) with OR=1.640; p=0.05 under the codominant model. 
The significantly higher risk for developing Hypothyroidism was calculated again 
for CT-genotype patients with OR=1.789. According to the hormone reference 
values, a significant association of CT genotype with decreased TSH (75.4%) 
simultaneously with increased free T4 hormone (94%) levels was also calculated. 
When patients were stratified by genotype and compared to the same genotype in 
HC, we observed that the decreased levels in serum TGF-b1 were significant for 
patients who carried the C-allele in their genotype.
CONCLUSION: We suggest that heterozygous genotype CT is a genetic risk factor 
for developing more severe HT due to enhanced free T4 serum level at the onset 
of the disease, before developing the hypothyroid stage.

Copyright© Bentham Science Publishers; For any queries, please email at 
epub@benthamscience.org.

DOI: 10.2174/1389201019666180802142803
PMID: 30070177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2019 Jul;127(7):417-422. doi:
10.1055/a-0653-7108.  Epub 2018 Jul 30.

The Effect of Gluten-Free Diet on Thyroid Autoimmunity in Drug-Naïve Women with 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis: A Pilot Study.

Krysiak R(1), Szkróbka W(1), Okopień B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Autoimmune thyroid disease is often accompanied by celiac disease.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate whether a gluten-free 
diet affects thyroid autoimmunity, hypothalamic-pituitary-thyroid axis activity 
and thyroid function tests in women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and 
incidentally found positive anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies.
METHODS: The study included 34 women with autoimmune thyroiditis divided into 
two group. The patients belonging to the first one (group A, n=16) complied with 
the gluten-free diet for 6 months, while the remaining patients (group B, n=18) 
remained without any dietary treatment. Serum titers of thyroid peroxidase and 
thyroglobulin antibodies, as well as serum levels of thyrotropin, free thyroid 
hormones and 25-hydroxyvitamin D were measured at the beginning of the study and 
6 months later. Based on thyrotropin and free thyroid hormone levels, Jostel's 
thyrotropin index, the SPINA-GT index and the SPINA-GD index were calculated.
RESULTS: All patients completed the study protocol. In group B, serum 
thyrotropin and free thyroid hormones levels, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels 
as well as the calculated indices remained at the similar levels. The 
gluten-free diet reduced thyroid antibody titers, as well as slightly increased 
25-hydroxyvitamin D levels and the SPINA-GT index. In group A, the impact on 
TPOAb and TgAb titers correlated with the changes in the SPINA-GT index, whereas 
the impact on TPOAb with the changes in 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels.
CONCLUSIONS: The obtained results suggest that the gluten-free diet may bring 
clinical benefits to women with autoimmune thyroid disease.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/a-0653-7108
PMID: 30060266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


131. Endocr J. 2018 Oct 29;65(10):1029-1037. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ18-0166. Epub
 2018 Jul 27.

Vitamin D in Hashimoto's thyroiditis and its relationship with thyroid function 
and inflammatory status.

Botelho IMB(1), Moura Neto A(1), Silva CA(2), Tambascia MA(1), Alegre SM(3), 
Zantut-Wittmann DE(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Division, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medical 
Sciences, University of Campinas, Campinas, San Paulo, Brazil.
(2)Biology Institute, University of Campinas, Campinas, San Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Metabolic Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medical Sciences, 
University of Campinas Campinas, San Paulo, Brazil.

Several studies have shown the correlation between vitamin D [25(OH)D] 
deficiency and thyroid autoimmunity and reducing of thyroid autoantibodies in 
patients with normal levels of vitamin D combining with thyroid hormone 
replacement. However, other authors not agree with this association. It is still 
unclear whether the low 25(OH)D levels are the result of HT disease or a part of 
its cause. We studied 88 patients with HT regarding vitamin D status and thyroid 
autoimmunity markers as well as the relationship with cytokines produced by Th1, 
Th2, and Th17 cells compared with a control group of 71 euthyroid healthy 
subjects. The present study demonstrated that vitamin D concentrations were 
similar in patients HT and the control group. The reduction of free T4 levels 
was a predictor of vitamin D insufficiency for Hashimoto's thyroiditis, but not 
for the control group. Lower concentrations of TNF-α was a predictor of lower 
levels of vitamin D. Differences in the association between HT and vitamin D 
insufficiency remain unresolved in the literature. The thyroid hormone status 
would play a role in the maintenance of vitamin D sufficiency, and its 
immunomodulatory role would influence the presence of autoimmune thyroid 
disease. The positive correlation between free T4 and vitamin D concentrations 
suggests that adequate levothyroxine replacement in HT would be an essential 
factor in maintaining vitamin D at sufficient levels.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ18-0166
PMID: 30058600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Acta Biomed. 2018 May 23;89(S5):27-31. doi: 10.23750/abm.v89iS4.7358.

Clinical and biochemical characteristics of familial type 1 diabetes mellitus 
(FT1DM) compared to non-familial type 1 DM (NFT1DM).

Alyafei F(1), Soliman A, Alkhalaf F, Sabt A, De Sanctis V, Elsayed N, Waseef R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Hamad Medical Center, Doha, Qatar. 
atsoliman@yahoo.com.

INTRODUCTION: Familial type 1 diabetes mellitus (FT1DM) comprises 
parent-offspring and sib-pair subgroups. The clinical and genetic 
characteristics of FT1DM cases with and without affected family members have 
been previously studied with varying results. Some investigators found 
similarity of presenting features whereas others reported significant 
differences between the two groups.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the clinical and biochemical characteristics of children 
with FT1DM in comparison with those with non-familial type 1 diabetes mellitus 
(NFT1DM).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional retrospective study in a 
cohort of children and adolescents with T1DM (n=424) aged between 6 months - 16 
years attending to Hamad General Hospital Pediatric Diabetes Center, Doha 
(Qatar) from 2012-2016. They were divided into 2 groups. Group 1 consisted of 62 
children and adolescent with FT1DM (parent-offspring or sib-pair). The other 
group (Group 2) consisted of 431 children and adolescents with NFT1DM. The 
clinical presentation and prevalence of β-cell autoimmunity (anti-glutamic acid 
decarboxylase (GAD) antibodies , anti-islet cell and anti-insulin antibodies), 
thyroid function (Free thyroxine: FT4 and thyroid-stimulating hormone: TSH), 
anti-thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPO) and anti-tissue transglutaminase (ATT) at 
their first presentation were recorded, described and analyzed.
RESULTS: FT1 DM was more prevalent in boys versus girls (1.4:1, respectively) 
whereas the prevalence of NFT1DM did not differ between genders (1:1.1, 
respectively). F1DM occurred relatively early in childhood (40.7% before the age 
of 4 years and 72% before 9 years of age) versus NFT1DM which occurred 
relatively later in life (80% after the age of 4 years and 40% after the age of 
9 years). 35.2% of FT1DM presented with diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) versus 32.5% 
of T1DM patients. Anti-islet antibodies (Ab) were detected more frequently in 
FT1DM versus NFT1DM. The prevalence of positive anti-insulin and anti- GAD 
antibodies did not differ between the two groups. Anti TPO were detected in 
27.2% of NFT1DM and 35.5% of FT1DM. A primary hypothyroidism, with positive 
ATPO, was more prevalent in FT1DM versus NFT1DM. ATT IgA was high in 5% of 
NFT1DM and 19.8% of FT1DM whereas ATT IgG was high in 4.4 % of NFT1DM and 15.4% 
of FT1DM.
CONCLUSIONS: FT1DM is more prevalent in boys versus girls and occurs earlier in 
childhood compared to NFT1DM. Primary hypothyroidism was more prevalent in 
NFT1DM versus FT1DM. Anti-islet Ab and ATT antibodies were more prevalent in the 
FT1DM versus NFT1DM. The genetic background may explain some differences between 
FT1DM and NFT1DM including the age of onset, gender affection, as well as 
associated autoimmune disorders.

DOI: 10.23750/abm.v89iS4.7358
PMCID: PMC6179093
PMID: 30049929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Lancet Neurol. 2018 Sep;17(9):760-772. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30244-8.
Epub  2018 Jul 23.

Frequency, symptoms, risk factors, and outcomes of autoimmune encephalitis after 
herpes simplex encephalitis: a prospective observational study and retrospective 
analysis.

Armangue T(1), Spatola M(2), Vlagea A(3), Mattozzi S(4), Cárceles-Cordon M(5), 
Martinez-Heras E(6), Llufriu S(7), Muchart J(8), Erro ME(9), Abraira L(10), 
Moris G(11), Monros-Giménez L(12), Corral-Corral Í(13), Montejo C(14), Toledo 
M(10), Bataller L(12), Secondi G(15), Ariño H(5), Martínez-Hernández E(5), Juan 
M(3), Marcos MA(16), Alsina L(17), Saiz A(18), Rosenfeld MR(19), Graus F(18), 
Dalmau J(20); Spanish Herpes Simplex Encephalitis Study Group.

Collaborators: Aguilera-Albesa S, Amado-Puentes A, Arjona-Padillo A, Arrabal L, 
Arratibel I, Aznar-Laín G, Bellas-Lamas P, Bermejo T, Boyero-Durán S, Camacho A, 
Campo A, Campos D, Cantarín-Extremera V, Carnero C, Conejo-Moreno D, Dapena M, 
Dacruz-Álvarez D, Delgadillo-Chilavert V, Deyà A, Estela-Herrero J, Felipe A, 
Fernández-Cooke E, Fernández-Ramos J, Fortuny C, García-Monco JC, Gili T, 
González-Álvarez V, Guerri R, Guillén S, Hedrera-Fernández A, López M, 
López-Laso E, Lorenzo-Ruiz M, Madruga M, Málaga-Diéguez I, Martí-Carrera I, 
Martínez-Lacasa X, Martín-Viota L, Martín Gil L, Martínez-González MJ, Moreira 
A, Miranda-Herrero MC, Monge L, Muñoz-Cabello B, Navarro-Morón J, Neth O, 
Noguera-Julian A, Nuñez-Enamorado N, Pomar V, Portillo-Cuenca JC, Poyato M, 
Prieto L, Querol L, Rodríguez-Rodríguez E, Sarria-Estrada S, Sierra C, 
Soler-Palacín P, Soto-Insuga V, Toledo-Bravo L, Tomás M, Torres-Torres C, Turón 
E, Zabalza A.

Author information:
(1)Neuroimmunology Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
Pediatric Neuroimmunology Unit, Neurology Department, Research Institute of Sant 
Joan de Déu Children's Hospital, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Neuroimmunology Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
University of Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Immunology Department, Centre of Biomedical Diagnosis, Hospital Clínic, 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Functional Unit of Clinical 
Immunology, Research Institute of Sant Joan de Déu Children's Hospital, 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Neuroimmunology Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
Section of Child Neuropsychiatry, Department of Medical Surgical and 
Experimental Medicine, University of Sassari (Sassari), Italy.
(5)Neuroimmunology Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Laboratory of Advanced Imaging in Neuroimmunological Diseases (IDIBAPS), 
Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(7)Laboratory of Advanced Imaging in Neuroimmunological Diseases (IDIBAPS), 
Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Service of 
Neurology, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(8)Department of Radiology, Research Institute of Sant Joan de Déu Children's 
Hospital, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Department of Neurology, Complejo Hospitalario de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.
(10)Department of Neurology, Hospital Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain.
(11)Department of Neurology, Hospital Central de Asturias, Oviedo, Spain.
(12)Department of Neurology, Hospital Universitari i Politècnic La Fe, Valencia, 
Spain.
(13)Hospital Universitario Ramon y Cajal, Madrid, Spain.
(14)Service of Neurology, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(15)Pediatric Neuroimmunology Unit, Neurology Department, Research Institute of 
Sant Joan de Déu Children's Hospital, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(16)Microbiology Department, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(17)Functional Unit of Clinical Immunology, Research Institute of Sant Joan de 
Déu Children's Hospital, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(18)Neuroimmunology Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
Service of Neurology, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(19)Neuroimmunology Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, PA, USA.
(20)Neuroimmunology Program, Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; 
Service of Neurology, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain; Department of Neurology, University of Pennsylvania, PA, USA; Catalan 
Institution for Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA), Barcelona, Spain. 
Electronic address: jdalmau@clinic.cat.

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2018 Sep;17(9):733-735. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30279-5.
    J Neurol. 2019 May;266(5):1287-1289. doi: 10.1007/s00415-019-09273-5.

BACKGROUND: Herpes simplex encephalitis can trigger autoimmune encephalitis that 
leads to neurological worsening. We aimed to assess the frequency, symptoms, 
risk factors, and outcomes of this complication.
METHODS: We did a prospective observational study and retrospective analysis. In 
the prospective observational part of this study, we included patients with 
herpes simplex encephalitis diagnosed by neurologists, paediatricians, or 
infectious disease specialists in 19 secondary and tertiary Spanish centres 
(Cohort A). Outpatient follow-up was at 2, 6, and 12 months from onset of herpes 
simplex encephalitis. We studied another group of patients retrospectively, when 
they developed autoimmune encephalitis after herpes simplex encephalitis (Cohort 
B). We compared demographics and clinical features of patients who developed 
autoimmune encephalitis with those who did not, and in patients who developed 
autoimmune encephalitis we compared these features by age group (patients ≤4 
years compared with patients >4 years). We also used multivariable binary 
logistic regression models to assess risk factors for autoimmune encephalitis 
after herpes simplex encephalitis.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 1, 2014, and Oct 31, 2017, 54 patients with herpes simplex 
encephalitis were recruited to Cohort A, and 51 were included in the analysis 
(median age 50 years [IQR 5-68]). At onset of herpes simplex encephalitis, none 
of the 51 patients had antibodies to neuronal antigens; during follow-up, 14 
(27%) patients developed autoimmune encephalitis and all 14 (100%) had neuronal 
antibodies (nine [64%] had NMDA receptor [NMDAR] antibodies and five [36%] had 
other antibodies) at or before onset of symptoms. The other 37 patients did not 
develop autoimmune encephalitis, although 11 (30%) developed antibodies (n=3 to 
NMDAR, n=8 to unknown antigens; p<0·001). Antibody detection within 3 weeks of 
herpes simplex encephalitis was a risk factor for autoimmune encephalitis (odds 
ratio [OR] 11·5, 95% CI 2·7-48·8; p<0·001). Between Oct 7, 2011, and Oct 31, 
2017, there were 48 patients in Cohort B with new-onset or worsening 
neurological symptoms not caused by herpes simplex virus reactivation (median 
age 8·8 years [IQR 1·1-44·2]; n=27 male); 44 (92%) patients had 
antibody-confirmed autoimmune encephalitis (34 had NMDAR antibodies and ten had 
other antibodies). In both cohorts (n=58 patients with antibody-confirmed 
autoimmune encephalitis), patients older than 4 years frequently presented with 
psychosis (18 [58%] of 31; younger children not assessable). Compared with 
patients older than 4 years, patients aged 4 years or younger (n=27) were more 
likely to have shorter intervals between onset of herpes simplex encephalitis 
and onset of autoimmune encephalitis (median 26 days [IQR 24-32] vs 43 days 
[25-54]; p=0·0073), choreoathetosis (27 [100%] of 27 vs 0 of 31; p<0·001), 
decreased level of consciousness (26 [96%] of 27 vs seven [23%] of 31; p<0·001), 
NMDAR antibodies (24 [89%] of 27 vs 19 [61%] of 31; p=0·033), and worse outcome 
at 1 year (median modified Rankin Scale 4 [IQR 4-4] vs 2 [2-3]; p<0·0010; 
seizures 12 [63%] of 19 vs three [13%] of 23; p=0·001).
INTERPRETATION: The results of our prospective study show that autoimmune 
encephalitis occurred in 27% of patients with herpes simplex encephalitis. It 
was associated with development of neuronal antibodies and usually presented 
within 2 months after treatment of herpes simplex encephalitis; the symptoms 
were age-dependent, and the neurological outcome was worse in young children. 
Prompt diagnosis is important because patients, primarily those older than 4 
years, can respond to immunotherapy.
FUNDING: Mutua Madrileña Foundation, Fondation de l'Université de Lausanne et 
Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Vaudois, Instituto Carlos III, CIBERER, 
National Institutes of Health, Generalitat de Catalunya, Fundació CELLEX.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30244-8
PMCID: PMC6128696
PMID: 30049614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: Dr. Dalmau holds patents 
for the use of Ma2, NMDAR, GABAbR, GABAaR, DPPX and IgLON5 as autoantibody 
tests. Dr. Graus holds a patent for the use of IgLON5 as an autoantibody test. 
Dr. Rosenfeld holds patents for the use of Ma2 and NMDAR as autoantibody tests. 
Drs. Dalmau, Graus, and Rosenfeld receive royalties related to autoantibody 
tests from Athena Diagnostics and Euroimmun, Inc. The rest of the authors have 
no conflicts of interest.


134. Lancet Neurol. 2018 Sep;17(9):733-735. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30279-5.
Epub  2018 Jul 23.

Autoimmune encephalitis after herpes simplex encephalitis: insights into 
pathogenesis.

Gelfand JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Weill Institute for Neurosciences, MS and Neuroinflammation Clinic, 
University of California, 94158, San Francisco, CA, USA. Electronic address: 
jeffrey.gelfand@ucsf.edu.

Comment on
    Lancet Neurol. 2018 Sep;17(9):760-772. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30244-8.

DOI: 10.1016/S1474-4422(18)30279-5
PMID: 30049613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. EMBO Mol Med. 2018 Aug;10(8):e9369. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201809369.

Microglia P2X4 receptors as pharmacological targets for demyelinating diseases.

Di Virgilio F(1), Sarti AC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Morphology, Surgery and Experimental Medicine, University of 
Ferrara, Ferrara, Italy.

Comment on
    EMBO Mol Med. 2018 Aug;10(8):e8743. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201708743.

Pharmacological activation of the P2X4 receptor expressed by brain microglia may 
provide a novel avenue to promote remyelination and improve clinical symptoms in 
experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and potentially in multiple sclerosis.

DOI: 10.15252/emmm.201809369
PMCID: PMC6079532
PMID: 30037978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Seizure. 2018 Aug;60:198-204. doi: 10.1016/j.seizure.2018.06.021. Epub 2018
Jun  28.

Electroclinical features of seizures associated with autoimmune encephalitis.

Steriade C(1), Moosa ANV(2), Hantus S(2), Prayson RA(3), Alexopoulos A(2), 
Rae-Grant A(4).

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Center, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA. Electronic 
address: steriade.c@gmail.com.
(2)Epilepsy Center, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, USA.
(3)Department of Anatomic Pathology, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH, 
USA.
(4)Mellen Center for Multiple Sclerosis, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, 
OH, USA.

PURPOSE: We sought to characterize the electroclinical features of seizures 
associated with autoimmune encephalitis and their relevance to outcome.
METHODS: 19 patients with seizures and autoimmune encephalitis were identified 
from a database of 100 patients (2008-2017) with autoimmune neurological 
disorders. Clinical and electroclinical characteristics were collected. 
Persistent seizures at last follow-up were then correlated with electroclinical 
features.
RESULTS: Status epilepticus (53%) and early intractability to AEDs (median time 
to second AED 9.5 days) marked the onset of refractory seizures (median number 
of AEDs 3). Seizure semiology (abdominal (16%), psychic (42%), olfactory (6%) 
auras), interictal temporal epileptiform discharges (42%), and ictal onset in 
the temporal region (63%) mirrored radiologic involvement of the medial temporal 
regions (on MRI in 74% and/or FDG-PET in 75%). In addition, multimodal auras, 
with somatosensory (26%), autonomic (26%), gustatory (11%), and visual (16%), 
features were seen in 82% of patients with focal aware seizures, invoking 
broader involvement of the perisylvian regions. A change in seizure semiology 
and EEG findings was often seen. Electroclinical features were similar 
regardless of antibody type, with the exception of the association of 
faciobrachial dystonic seizures with LGI1 antibodies. Eight patients had 
medically intractable seizures at last follow-up and were more likely than 
patients with seizure remission to have generalized tonic-clonic seizures and 
temporal lobe involvement on the basis of semiological features, interictal EEG 
and MRI changes.
CONCLUSIONS: Seizures associated with autoimmune encephalitis exhibit common 
electroclinical features which show dynamic evolution over time. We propose a 
role for the temporo-perisylvian regions in their generation.

Copyright © 2018 British Epilepsy Association. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.seizure.2018.06.021
PMID: 30031297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Jul 15;2018:bcr2018225155. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2018-225155.

Case of fatal familial insomnia caused by a d178n mutation with phenotypic 
similarity to Hashimoto's encephalopathy.

Stevens JM(1), Levine MR(1), Constantino AE(1), Motamedi GK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, Washington, 
District of Columbia, USA.

Fatal familial insomnia (FFI) is a rare prion disease commonly inherited in an 
autosomal dominant pattern from a mutation in the PRioN Protein (PRNP) gene. 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is characterised by encephalopathy associated 
with antithyroid peroxidase (TPO) or antithyroglobulin (Tg) antibodies. These 
two conditions characteristically have differing clinical presentations with 
dramatically different clinical course and outcomes. Here, we present a case of 
FFI mimicking HE. A woman in her 50s presented with worsening confusion, 
hallucinations, tremor and leg jerks. Several maternal relatives had been 
diagnosed with FFI, but the patient had had negative genetic testing for PRNP. 
MRI of brain, cervical and thoracic spine were unremarkable except for evidence 
of prior cervical transverse myelitis. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was normal. 
Anti-TPO and anti-Tg antibodies were elevated. She was started on steroids for 
possible HE and showed improvement in symptoms. Following discharge, the results 
of her PRNP gene test returned positive for variant p.Asp178Asn.

© BMJ Publishing Group Limited 2018. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-225155
PMCID: PMC6047710
PMID: 30012679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


138. Semin Neurol. 2018 Jun;38(3):392-402. doi: 10.1055/s-0038-1660819. Epub 2018
Jul  16.

Diagnostic and Therapeutic Approach to Autoimmune Neurologic Disorders.

López-Chiriboga AS(1), Flanagan EP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

The field of autoimmune neurology is evolving rapidly. The discovery of 
autoantibodies that target neural antigens has expanded swiftly in the last 
decade. Recognition of the clinical syndromes associated with autoimmune 
neurologic disorders, and our understanding of the pathophysiology, has 
progressed significantly. Radiographic, electrophysiological, and laboratory 
testing (particularly neural autoantibody testing) are fundamental in the 
diagnosis of autoimmune neurological disorders and in the exclusion of mimics. 
Furthermore, investigations may serve as a baseline from which objective 
assessment of improvement or detection of relapse can be made. These disorders 
can be associated with underlying neoplasms, and screening for malignancy is an 
essential component of the investigations. Early diagnosis and prompt initiation 
of immunotherapy can improve neurologic function. The use of immunotherapy, 
however, can be associated with diverse side effects, and careful monitoring is 
crucial to prevent complications. Herein the authors address the diagnostic and 
treatment approach of autoimmune neurologic disorders, with particular focus on 
antibody-mediated neurologic autoimmunity.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1660819
PMID: 30011418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: A. Sebastian López-Chiriboga and Eoin P. 
Flanagan report no disclosures.


139. Semin Neurol. 2018 Jun;38(3):330-343. doi: 10.1055/s-0038-1660821. Epub 2018
Jul  16.

An Overview of Autoimmune and Paraneoplastic Encephalitides.

Bradshaw MJ(1)(2)(3), Linnoila JJ(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Partners Multiple Sclerosis Center, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(2)Division of Autoimmune Neurology, Department of Neurology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

The understanding of the manifestations, mechanisms, and management of 
autoimmune encephalitis has expanded dramatically in recent decades. 
Immune-mediated encephalitides are comparable in incidence and prevalence to 
infectious etiologies, and are associated with significant morbidity, especially 
when there is a delay in recognition and treatment. As such, clinicians from 
many specialties must develop a functional understanding of these disorders. 
Herein we provide an overview of the autoimmune and paraneoplastic 
encephalitides, including those associated with either intracellular or cell 
surface/synaptic neuronal autoantibodies. After briefly reviewing the current 
understanding of the pathobiology of autoimmune encephalitis, we combine a 
neuroanatomical approach with specific antibody syndromes to provide the reader 
with a clinically relevant review of these disorders. The clinical 
manifestations, diagnosis, and management of autoimmune encephalitis are 
reviewed, with an emphasis on clinical relevance. We also introduce updates in 
the field, including autoimmune encephalitis associated with novel cancer 
immunotherapies, infectious triggers of autoimmune encephalitis, and autoimmune 
encephalitis with demyelinating overlap syndromes.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0038-1660821
PMID: 30011413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors report no conflicts of 
interest in this work.


140. Rev Med Chil. 2018 Mar;146(3):351-361. doi: 10.4067/s0034-98872018000300351.

[Autoimmune encephalitis. A review].

[Article in Spanish]

Collao-Parra JP(1), Romero-Urra C(1), Delgado-Derio C(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Neurología y Neurocirugía, Hospital Clínico, Universidad de 
Chile, Santiago, Chile.

Autoimmune encephalitis are one of the emergent causes of subacute changes in 
the level of consciousness, behavior, cognitive impairment and seizures, mainly 
in young people. They are a consequence of inflammation or dysfunction of parts 
of the brain caused by antibodies against specific brain antigens, usually 
located in the limbic system, resulting in clinical presentation as a limbic 
encephalitis. The objectives of this article are to show the clinical 
presentation, complementary studies and treatment of this entity, considering 
that the patient's prognostic depends on a high level of clinical suspicion, and 
on an early initiation of immunosuppressive therapy. We did a nonsystematic 
review of the literature on autoimmune encephalitis between 2005 and 2017. We 
conclude that the prevalence of autoimmune encephalitis is increasing, even 
surpassing infectious causes of encephalitis in developed countries. Clinical 
presentation includes sub-acute cognitive and behavioral impairment, with or 
without alterations in consciousness and seizures. Fever and inflammation of the 
cerebrospinal fluid are less common than in the infectious causes but 
psychiatric symptoms are more frequent. There are specific clinical 
presentations according to the particular type of antigen/antibody present, 
which also determines the association with cancer, constituting a paraneoplastic 
syndrome only in some cases. Immunosuppressive therapy has been standardized in 
steps, and should be initiated early to improve prognosis.

DOI: 10.4067/s0034-98872018000300351
PMID: 29999106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Biomed Res Int. 2018 Jun 11;2018:7959707. doi: 10.1155/2018/7959707.
eCollection  2018.

Polymorphisms in Autophagy-Related Gene IRGM Are Associated with Susceptibility 
to Autoimmune Thyroid Diseases.

Yao QM(1), Zhu YF(2), Wang W(1), Song ZY(3), Shao XQ(1), Li L(1), Song RH(1), An 
XF(4), Qin Q(1), Li Q(1), Zhang JA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508 
Longhang Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai 201508, China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Nephrology, Weinan Central Hospital, Shaanxi 
Province 714000, China.
(3)Department of Urology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, No. 1508 
Longhang Road, Jinshan District, Shanghai 201508, China.
(4)Department of Endocrinology, The Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing 210023, China.
(5)Department of Endocrinology, Shanghai University of Medicine & Health 
Sciences Affiliated Zhoupu Hospital, No. 1500 Zhouyuan Road, Pudong District, 
Shanghai 201318, China.

BACKGROUND: To date, studies have shown that polymorphisms in an 
autophagy-related gene, IRGM, are linked with different diseases, especially 
autoimmune diseases. The present study aimed to examine the roles of IRGM 
polymorphisms in autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITD).
METHODS: Three polymorphisms in IRGM gene (rs10065172, rs4958847, and 
rs13361189) were genotyped in 1569 participants (488 with Graves' disease, 292 
with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and 789 healthy controls) using PCR-based ligase 
detection reaction method. Gene-disease associations were evaluated for the 
three SNPs.
RESULTS: T allele of rs10065172, A allele of rs4958847, and C allele of 
rs13361189 were all higher in Graves' disease patients than controls, and the 
ORs were OR = 1.207 (P = 0.022), OR = 1.207 (P = 0.027), and OR = 1.200 (P = 
0.027), respectively. After adjusting for sex and age, rs10065172 and rs13361189 
were still associated with GD under both the allele model and dominant model, 
and the adjusted ORs for rs10065172 were 1.20 (P = 0.033) and 1.33 (P = 0.024), 
while the adjusted ORs for rs13361189 were 1.19 (P = 0.042) and 1.33 (P = 
0.026), respectively. No significant difference was found between Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis patients and controls. Haplotype analysis found that CTA frequency 
was distinguishingly higher in Graves' disease patients (OR = 1.195, P = 0.030). 
The frequency of TCG haplotype was distinguishingly lower in AITD and Graves' 
disease patients (OR = 0.861, P = 0.044; OR = 0.816, P = 0.017).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study reveals IRGM as a susceptibility gene of AITD and Graves' 
disease for the first time.

DOI: 10.1155/2018/7959707
PMCID: PMC6016217
PMID: 29992164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Neurology. 2018 Jul 10;91(2):98-101. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000005774.

Child Neurology: Treatable bilateral striatal lesions related to anti-dopamine 2 
receptor autoimmunity.

Marques-Matos C(1), Melo C(2), Sampaio M(2), Rodrigues E(2), Sousa R(2), Alves 
D(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Neurology Department (C.M.-M., D.A.) and Child Neurology Unit (C.M., 
M.S., R.S., D.A.) and Metabolism Diseases Unit (E.R.) of the Pediatrics 
Department, São João Hospital Centre; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences 
and Mental Health, Faculty of Medicine (C.M.-M.), Porto University, Portugal. 
marques.matos.claudia@gmail.com.
(2)From the Neurology Department (C.M.-M., D.A.) and Child Neurology Unit (C.M., 
M.S., R.S., D.A.) and Metabolism Diseases Unit (E.R.) of the Pediatrics 
Department, São João Hospital Centre; and Department of Clinical Neurosciences 
and Mental Health, Faculty of Medicine (C.M.-M.), Porto University, Portugal.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000005774
PMID: 29987177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2018 Sep 1;103(9):3359-3367. doi: 
10.1210/jc.2018-00498.

Patients With Autoimmune Thyroiditis Show Diminished Levels and Defective 
Suppressive Function of Tr1 Regulatory Lymphocytes.

Vitales-Noyola M(1)(2), Serrano-Somavilla A(3), Martínez-Hernández R(3), 
Sampedro-Nuñez M(3), Ramos-Levi AM(3), González-Amaro R(1)(2), Marazuela M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, School of Medicine, Universidad Autónoma de San 
Luis Potosí, San Luis Potosí, México.
(2)Research Center of Health Sciences and Biomedicine, Universidad Autónoma de 
San Luis Potosí, San Luis Potosí, México.
(3)Services of Endocrinology, Immunology and Molecular Biology Unit, Hospital 
Universitario de la Princesa, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, Madrid, Spain.

Comment in
    J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2020 Jan 1;105(1):dgz125. doi: 
10.1210/clinem/dgz125.
    J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2020 Jan 1;105(1):dgz127. doi: 
10.1210/clinem/dgz127.

CONTEXT: T regulatory type 1 (Tr1) cells are a subpopulation of T lymphocytes 
(CD4+CD49+LAG-3+IL-10+) that exert a considerable immunosuppressive effect. 
However, their possible role in autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) has not been 
explored so far.
PURPOSE: To analyze the levels and function of Tr1 cells in peripheral blood and 
thyroid tissue of patients with AITD.
DESIGN: Cases and controls, observational study.
SETTING: Department of Endocrinology, Hospital Universitario de la Princesa, 
Madrid, Spain.
PATIENTS: Thirty-eight patients with AITD (23 with Graves disease and 15 with 
Hashimoto thyroiditis) and 26 controls.
INTERVENTION: Multiparametric flow cytometry and immunofluorescence techniques 
were used to analyze the levels in peripheral blood (n = 38) and thyroid 
mononuclear cells (n = 5). An in vitro assay of suppression of cellular 
activation and cytokine release was performed to study the function of Tr1 
cells.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Levels and function of Tr1 cells in patients with AITD and 
controls.
RESULTS: Levels of Tr1 cells were significantly diminished in peripheral blood 
from patients with AITD. Functional studies showed that Tr1 cells from patients 
with AITD exhibit a diminished suppressive function compared with healthy 
controls. Tr1 levels were associated with disease severity, including longer 
duration of the disease and ophthalmopathy activity, and with autoantibody 
titers.
CONCLUSIONS: The low levels of Tr1 cells and their diminished function may have 
a relevant role in the defective immune-regulatory function characteristic of 
patients with AITD.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2018-00498
PMID: 29982465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Jul;97(27):e11202. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000011202.

Analysis and discussion of the rare complication of autoimmune encephalitis: Two 
case reports.

Li R(1), Jiang L, Li XJ, Hong SQ, Zhong M, Hu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Children's Hospital of Chongqing Medical University 
Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Child Development and Disorders Key 
Laboratory of Pediatrics in Chongqing Chongqing International Science and 
Technology Cooperation Center for Child Development and Disorders, Chongqing, 
China.

RATIONALE: Autoimmune encephalitis related to many antibodies against neuronal 
cell surface or synaptic proteins, it is increasingly recognized as the cause of 
a variety of neuropsychiatric syndromes.
PATIENT CONCERNS: The two pediatric cases were about autoimmune encephalitis 
with rare complication. One patient was a 11-year-old girl and was diagnosed 
with Voltage-Gated Potassium Channel complex (VGKC) antibody-mediated 
encephalitis with rhabdomyolysis; the other was also a 11-year-old girl and was 
diagnosed with anti- N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis.
DIAGNOSES: Both patients were diagnosed as autoimmune encephalitis with rare 
complication.
INTERVENTIONS: Intravenous methylprednisolone, oral prednisone and intravenous 
immunoglobulin was administered to both patients.
OUTCOMES: One patient was discharged after a half month's hospitalization; the 
other was finally with intestinal function failure, gradually developed multiple 
organ failure, and eventually died.
LESSONS: The pathogenic mechanism of autoimmune encephalitis associated with 
autoimmune disease is not fully understood, but may be related to a common 
immune pathological mechanism with variance in susceptibility caused by genetic 
or environmental factors.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000011202
PMCID: PMC6076142
PMID: 29979382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


145. Reumatismo. 2018 Jul 6;70(2):106-110. doi: 10.4081/reumatismo.2018.1017.

Coexistence of sarcoidosis and Hashimoto thyroiditis.

Semiz H, Yalcin M, Kobak S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, LIV Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Istinye 
University, Istanbul. senolkobak@yahoo.com.

Sarcoidosis is a chronic, inflammatory disease with unknown cause characterized 
by non-caseating granuloma formations. It can present with bilateral hilar 
lymphadenopathy, skin lesions, eye involvement and locomotor system findings. 
Hashimoto thyroiditis is an organ-specific autoimmune disease characterized by 
increased autoantibody synthesis. Sarcoidosis can involve different endocrine 
glands. Thyroid gland involvement may lead to increased thyroid function 
disorders and autoantibodies. Herein, we report an 80-year-old female patient 
with sarcoidosis and Hashimoto coexistence.

DOI: 10.4081/reumatismo.2018.1017
PMID: 29976045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Autoimmunity. 2018 Jun;51(4):183-190. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1486824.
Epub  2018 Jul 4.

Analysis of chosen polymorphisms rs2476601 a/G - PTPN22, rs1990760 C/T - IFIH1, 
rs179247 a/G - TSHR in pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroid diseases in children.

Rydzewska M(1), Góralczyk A(1), Gościk J(2), Wawrusiewicz-Kurylonek N(3), 
Bossowska A(4), Krętowski A(3), Bossowski A(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pediatric Endocrinology , Diabetology with Cardiology 
Division, Medical University of Białystok , Białystok , Poland.
(2)b Software Department, Faculty of Computer Science , Białystok University of 
Technology , Białystok , Poland.
(3)c Department of Endocrinology and Diabetes with Internal Medicine , Medical 
University in Białystok , Białystok , Poland.
(4)d Division of Cardiology , Internal Affairs and Administration Ministry 
Hospital in Białystok , Białystok , Poland.

BACKGROUND: Autoimmune thyroid diseases are multifactorial diseases with a 
genetic susceptibility and environmental factors. A potential role of the 
protein tyrosine phosphatase non-receptor type 22 (PTPN22) gene, the 
interferon-induced helicase domain 1 (IFIH1) gene, the thyroid-stimulating 
hormone receptor (TSHR) gene polymorphisms on autoimmune thyroid diseases 
(AITDs) in adults has been established unequivocally, but there is still lack of 
research articles including group of children. Objective and hypotheses: To 
estimate the association of polymorphisms of PTPN22, IFIH1 and TSH-R genes with 
the pre-disposition to Graves' disease (GD) and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) in 
children.
METHODS: The study was performed in 142 patients with GD, 57 with HT and 160 
healthy volunteers. The three single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs): rs2476601 
- PTPN22, rs1990760 - IFIH1 and rs179247 - TSHR were genotyped by TaqMan SNP 
genotyping assay using the real-time PCR.
RESULTS: Rs2476601 A alleles were more frequent in patients with GD in 
comparison to healthy subjects (p = .009 with odds ratio [OR] = 2.13). Rs2476601 
A alleles were more frequent in patients with HT in comparison to healthy 
subjects (p = .008, OR = 2.48). Rs1990760 T alleles were more frequent in male 
patients with GD in comparison to healthy males (p = .003, OR = 3.00). In case 
of HT patients, rs1990760 T alleles were also more frequent in males compared to 
healthy subjects (p = .086, OR =2.47). Rs179247 A alleles were more frequent in 
patients with GD in comparison to healthy subjects (p = 0.039, OR = 1.51).
CONCLUSIONS: Rs2476601 A/G, Rs1990760 C/T and Rs179247 A/G polymorphisms could 
contribute to the development of AITDs in children. The main risk factor for 
rs2476601 and rs179247 is allele A. In case of rs1990760, the main risk factor 
is allele T.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1486824
PMID: 29973096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Semin Pediatr Neurol. 2018 Jul;26:101-103. doi: 10.1016/j.spen.2017.05.003.
Epub  2017 Jun 12.

A 15-Year-Old Boy With Refractory Status Epilepticus.

Shukla NM(1), Risen S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX. 
Electronic address: malani@bcm.edu.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX.

In this case report, we discuss a 15-year-old previously healthy boy who 
presented with acute onset encephalopathy with refractory status epilepticus 
requiring pentobarbital-induced burst suppression for seizure control. We review 
the differential diagnosis and important diagnostic considerations for pediatric 
patients presenting with acute encephalopathy. We then review Hashimoto 
encephalopathy (SREAT) and discuss presentation, diagnosis, and treatment.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spen.2017.05.003
PMID: 29961495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Endocrine. 2018 Oct;62(1):136-143. doi: 10.1007/s12020-018-1649-6. Epub 2018
Jun  29.

Cognitive functioning and quality of life in patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis 
on long-term levothyroxine replacement.

Djurovic M(1), Pereira AM(2), Smit JWA(3), Vasovic O(4), Damjanovic S(5), 
Jemuovic Z(5), Pavlovic D(6), Miljic D(5), Pekic S(5), Stojanovic M(5), Asanin 
M(7), Krljanac G(7), Petakov M(5).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Endocrinology, Diabetes and Diseases of Metabolism, University 
Clinical Centre of Serbia, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia. 
prof.marina.djurovic@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolic Diseases, and Centre for Endocrine 
Tumors Leiden, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Radboud 
University Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(4)Institute for Gerontology and Palliative Care, Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(5)Clinic for Endocrinology, Diabetes and Diseases of Metabolism, University 
Clinical Centre of Serbia, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(6)Institute of Neurology, University Clinical Centre of Serbia, University of 
Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.
(7)Clinic for Cardiology, University Clinical Centre of Serbia, University of 
Belgrade, Belgrade, Serbia.

OBJECTIVE: Intrinsic imperfections of thyroid hormone replacement therapy may 
affect long-term general well-being. In patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis 
(HT), cognitive functioning may be affected via altered thyroid hormones action 
as well as by the autoimmune process. The aim of this study was to evaluate 
cognitive function and quality of life (QoL) in patients on long-term 
levothyroxine replacement for HT in relation to thyroid function tests and TPO 
(thyroid-peroxidase) antibody (TPOAb) status.
DESIGN: Retrospective cross-sectional study.
PATIENTS AND MEASUREMENTS: One-hundred-and thirty patients with HT on long-term 
levothyroxine replacement and 111 euthyroid control subjects. Both groups were 
divided into two age subgroups, 20-49 years (N = 59 vs N = 79) and > 50 years 
(N = 71 vs N = 32). Evaluation included biochemical and neuropsychological 
tests, evaluating attention, global cognitive status, verbal and working memory, 
executive function, depression and anxiety, and quality of life. We used ANOVA 
and partial correlations to test for significant associations.
RESULTS: FT4 (free-thyroxine), FT3 (free-triiodothyronine) levels and FT3/FT4 
ratio were not different between patients and controls. Mean TSH 
(thyroid-stimulating hormone) was normal in all subjects but significantly 
higher in the patients (20-49 yrs:3.64 ± 2.74 vs 1.93 ± 1.10, 
>50 yrs:3.93 ± 2.84 vs 1.91 ± 0.90). Antibodies (TgAb,TPOAb) were higher in 
patients. Global cognitive function (MMSE-Mini mental state examination), 
conceptual tracking (TMT-Trail Making Test:A/B), verbal divergent thinking (like 
Phonemic fluency test), and anxiety and depression scores were significantly 
worse in patients vs controls. QoL was impaired in patients. there was a 
significant negative correlation between antibodies (TPOAb, TgAb) and quality in 
life (total SF36 score).
CONCLUSION: Patients on long-term levothyroxine replacement show persistent 
impairments in both cognitive functioning and general well-being.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-018-1649-6
PMID: 29959689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Autoimmunity. 2018 Jun;51(4):175-182. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1477134.
Epub  2018 Jun 28.

Evidence of increased humoral endocrine organ-specific autoimmunity in severe 
and classic X-chromosome aneuploidies in comparison with 46,XY control subjects.

Panimolle F(1), Tiberti C(1), Granato S(1), Anzuini A(1), Pozza C(1), Lenzi 
A(1), Radicioni AF(1).

Author information:
(1)a Section of Medical Pathophysiology, Center of Rare Diseases, Department of 
Experimental Medicine , Sapienza University of Rome , Rome , Italy.

OBJECTIVE: In literature, the importance of X-linked gene dosage as a 
contributing factor for autoimmune diseases is generally assumed. However, 
little information is available on the frequency of humoral endocrine 
organ-specific autoimmunity in X-chromosome aneuploidies. In our preliminary 
study, we investigated the endocrine organ-specific humoral autoimmunity 
relative to four different organ-specific autoimmune diseases in a group of 
adult 47,XXY KS patients and in adults 46,XY control males (type 1 diabetes, 
T1DM; Addison's disease, AD; Hashimoto thyroiditis, HT; autoimmune chronic 
atrophic gastritis, AG). The aim of the present study is to evaluate the 
frequency of autoantibodies (Abs) specific for T1DM, AD, HT, and AG in rarer 
higher grade X-chromosome aneuploidies (HGA) and in 47,XXY children.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Samples from 192 Caucasian patients with an X-chromosome 
aneuploidy (176 patients (55 children, 121 adults) with 47,XXY karyotype (KS 
patients) and 16 HGA patients (eight children, eight adults)) recruited from 
Sapienza, University of Rome (2007-2017) were tested for Abs specific for T1DM 
(insulin-Abs, GAD-Abs, IA-2-Abs, Znt8-Abs), HT (TPO-Abs), AD (21-OH-Abs), and AG 
(APC-Abs). The results were compared to those found in 213 46,XY control 
subjects (96 children, 117 adults).
RESULTS: Altogether humoral organ-specific immunoreactivity was found in 13% of 
KS and HGA patients, with a significantly higher frequency than in the controls 
(p=.008). Almost 19% of HGA patients were positive for at least one of the 
organ-specific Abs investigated compared to 12.5% of KS patients. The frequency 
of the overall immunoreactivity was higher in KS children than in KS adults. The 
frequency of diabetes-specific Abs was significantly higher in the patient 
cohort than in controls (p=.005). Thyroid- and gastric-specific autoimmunity was 
also found in KS and HGA patients, while adrenal-specific immunoreactivity was 
rare.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest for the first time that the risk of endocrine 
organ-specific humoral autoimmunity progressively increases with the severity of 
X-chromosome polisomy. The screening for diabetes-, thyroid-, and 
gastric-specific autoimmunity should be considered in clinical practice for 
identifying rare and classic X-chromosome aneuploid patients at risk of 
developing organ-specific autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1477134
PMID: 29950118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Cell Rep. 2018 Jun 26;23(13):3759-3768. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.05.096.

NMDA Receptor Autoantibodies in Autoimmune Encephalitis Cause a Subunit-Specific 
Nanoscale Redistribution of NMDA Receptors.

Ladépêche L(1), Planagumà J(2), Thakur S(3), Suárez I(4), Hara M(5), Borbely 
JS(4), Sandoval A(4), Laparra-Cuervo L(4), Dalmau J(6), Lakadamyali M(7).

Author information:
(1)ICFO-Institut de Ciències Fotòniques, The Barcelona Institute of Science and 
Technology, 08860 Castelldefels (Barcelona), Spain; Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic c/ Villarroel 170, 
08036 Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: laurent.ladepeche@icfo.eu.
(2)ICFO-Institut de Ciències Fotòniques, The Barcelona Institute of Science and 
Technology, 08860 Castelldefels (Barcelona), Spain; Institut d'Investigacions 
Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital Clínic c/ Villarroel 170, 
08036 Barcelona, Spain.
(3)ICFO-Institut de Ciències Fotòniques, The Barcelona Institute of Science and 
Technology, 08860 Castelldefels (Barcelona), Spain; Department of Physiology, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 700 Clinical Research 
Building, 415 Curie Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6085, USA.
(4)ICFO-Institut de Ciències Fotòniques, The Barcelona Institute of Science and 
Technology, 08860 Castelldefels (Barcelona), Spain.
(5)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital 
Clínic c/ Villarroel 170, 08036 Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i Sunyer (IDIBAPS), Hospital 
Clínic c/ Villarroel 170, 08036 Barcelona, Spain; Department of Neurology, 
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA; Catalan Institution for 
Research and Advanced Studies (ICREA), 08010 Barcelona, Spain; Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Enfermedades Raras (CIBERER), Av. Monforte de 
Lemos, 3-5. Pabellón 11. Planta 0, 28029 Madrid, Spain.
(7)ICFO-Institut de Ciències Fotòniques, The Barcelona Institute of Science and 
Technology, 08860 Castelldefels (Barcelona), Spain; Department of Physiology, 
Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 700 Clinical Research 
Building, 415 Curie Boulevard, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6085, USA. Electronic 
address: melikel@pennmedicine.upenn.edu.

Anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis is a severe 
neuropsychiatric disorder mediated by autoantibodies against the GluN1 subunit 
of the NMDAR. Patients' antibodies cause cross-linking and internalization of 
NMDAR, but the synaptic events leading to depletion of NMDAR are poorly 
understood. Using super-resolution microscopy, we studied the effects of the 
autoantibodies on the nanoscale distribution of NMDAR in cultured neurons. Our 
findings show that, under control conditions, NMDARs form nanosized objects and 
patients' antibodies increase the clustering of synaptic and extrasynaptic 
receptors inside the nano-objects. This clustering is subunit specific and 
predominantly affects GluN2B-NMDARs. Following internalization, the remaining 
surface NMDARs return to control clustering levels but are preferentially 
retained at the synapse. Monte Carlo simulations using a model in which 
antibodies induce NMDAR cross-linking and disruption of interactions with other 
proteins recapitulated these results. Finally, activation of EphB2 receptor 
partially antagonized the antibody-mediated disorganization of the nanoscale 
surface distribution of NMDARs.

Copyright © 2018 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2018.05.096
PMCID: PMC6060408
PMID: 29949761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DECLARATION OF INTERESTS J.D. holds a patent for 
the use of Ma2 and NMDAR as an autoantibody test, receives royalties related to 
this test, and has an unrestricted research grant from Euroimmun.


151. Exp Oncol. 2018 Jun;40(2):128-131.

Differentiated thyroid carcinomas associated with chronic thyroiditis: 
biological and clinical properties.

Myshunina TM(1), Guda BD(1), Bolgov MY(1), Mikhailenko NI(1), Tronko ND(1).

Author information:
(1)State Institution "V.P. Komisarenko Institute of Endocrinology and Metabolism 
of the National Academy of Medical Sciences of Ukraine", Kyiv 04114, Ukraine.

AIM: To determine biological and clinical features of papillary and follicular 
thyroid carcinomas associated or not associated with chronic thyroiditis.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study was conducted by retrospective analysis of 
medical histories of 2,459 patients with thyroid cancer. Tumor size, its 
category according to the TNM system, multi-focal properties of tumor growth, 
carcinoma invasiveness, as well as disease stage, rates of relapses and 
metastasis, and also cumulative survival rates were analyzed.
RESULTS: The tumor size in patients with papillary or follicular carcinoma 
associated with thyroiditis was smaller compared to the patients without 
thyroiditis. In the first case, the invasion frequency into extrathyroid 
structure and into the capsule was also lower. Multi-focal growth of both 
carcinoma types was registered more frequently in the presence of thyroiditis. 
The frequency of papillary carcinoma metastasis to lateral cervical lymph nodes 
was lower in the presence of thyroiditis, the frequency being equal for 
metastasis into lymph nodes of the VI lymph outflow zone in both groups of 
patients (with and without thyroiditis). In the presence of thyroiditis, the 
frequency of distant papillary carcinoma metastasis was decreased, no metastases 
were detected in patients with follicular carcinoma. In the group of patients 
with papillary carcinoma there was found no relation between the presence of 
thyroiditis and disease stage, relapse rates, and mortality levels; however, the 
risk of follicular carcinoma relapse was significantly lower in patients with 
thyroiditis.
CONCLUSIONS: The presence of chronic thyroiditis in papillary carcinoma patients 
showed a certain positive impact on the course of the disease, in particular, 
primary tumor growth, invasion, and metastasis. Such effect is even more 
expressed in the patients with follicular thyroid carcinoma.

PMID: 29949530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Nutrients. 2018 Jun 25;10(7):814. doi: 10.3390/nu10070814.

Celiac Disease and Glandular Autoimmunity.

Kahaly GJ(1), Frommer L(2), Schuppan D(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine I, Johannes Gutenberg University (JGU) Medical Center, 
55101 Mainz, Germany. george.kahaly@unimedizin-mainz.de.
(2)Department of Medicine I, Johannes Gutenberg University (JGU) Medical Center, 
55101 Mainz, Germany. Lara.Frommer@unimedizin-mainz.de.
(3)Institute for Translational Immunology and Research Center for Immunotherapy 
(FZI), Johannes Gutenberg University (JGU) Medical Center, 55101 Mainz, Germany. 
Detlef.Schuppan@unimedizin-mainz.de.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA 02215, USA. Detlef.Schuppan@unimedizin-mainz.de.

Celiac disease is a small intestinal inflammatory disease with autoimmune 
features that is triggered and maintained by the ingestion of the storage 
proteins (gluten) of wheat, barley, and rye. Prevalence of celiac disease is 
increased in patients with mono- and/or polyglandular autoimmunity and their 
relatives. We have reviewed the current and pertinent literature that addresses 
the close association between celiac disease and endocrine autoimmunity. The 
close relationship between celiac disease and glandular autoimmunity can be 
largely explained by sharing of a common genetic background. Further, between 10 
and 30% of patients with celiac disease are thyroid and/or type 1 diabetes 
antibody positive, while around 5⁻7% of patients with autoimmune thyroid 
disease, type 1 diabetes, and/or polyglandular autoimmunity are IgA anti-tissue 
transglutaminase antibody positive. While a gluten free diet does not reverse 
glandular autoimmunity, its early institution may delay or even prevent its 
first manifestation. In conclusion, this brief review highlighting the close 
association between celiac disease and both monoglandular and polyglandular 
autoimmunity, aims to underline the need for prospective studies to establish 
whether an early diagnosis of celiac disease and a prompt gluten-free diet may 
positively impact the evolution and manifestation of glandular autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.3390/nu10070814
PMCID: PMC6073228
PMID: 29941778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


153. Acad Radiol. 2019 Feb;26(2):154-160. doi: 10.1016/j.acra.2018.05.010. Epub
2018  Jun 23.

Association Between BRAF(V600E) Mutation and the American College of Radiology 
Thyroid Imaging, Reporting and Data System in Solitary Papillary Thyroid 
Carcinoma.

Shangguan R(1), Hu YP(2), Huang J(3), Yang SJ(4), Ye L(5), Lin RX(6), Zhu J(5), 
Zhang TL(4), Ying L(5), Li P(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasonography, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou 
Medical University, Nanbaixiang Street, Ouhai District, Wenzhou 325000, China. 
Electronic address: shangguanronger@163.com.
(2)Department of Ultrasonography, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou 
Medical University, Nanbaixiang Street, Ouhai District, Wenzhou 325000, China. 
Electronic address: huyuanping1@hotmail.com.
(3)Department of Echocardiography, The Affiliated Changzhou No.2 People's 
Hospital With Nanjing Medical University, Changzhou 213003, China.
(4)Department of Ultrasonography, The First Hospital Affiliated to Zhejiang 
University, Hangzhou 310003, China.
(5)Department of Ultrasonography, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou 
Medical University, Nanbaixiang Street, Ouhai District, Wenzhou 325000, China.
(6)Department of Pathology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Wenzhou Medical 
University, Wenzhou 325000, China.

Comment in
    Acad Radiol. 2019 Feb;26(2):161-162. doi: 10.1016/j.acra.2018.11.007.

RATIONALE AND OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this study was to evaluate the 
associations between BRAFV600E mutation, the American College of Radiology (ACR) 
thyroid imaging, reporting and data system (TI-RADS) on ultrasound and 
clinicopathological characteristics in patients with a solitary papillary 
thyroid carcinoma (PTC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This retrospective study included 397 patients with a 
solitary PTC, proved pathologically. BRAFV600E mutation status was detected in 
postoperative samples by real-time fluorescent polymerase chain reaction. 
Associations of BRAFV600E mutation with the ACR TI-RADS and clinicopathological 
characteristics were analyzed.
RESULTS: In this study, the incidence of BRAFV600E mutation was 81.4% (323/397) 
in patients with a solitary PTC. Univariate analyses showed that BRAFV600E 
mutation was significantly associated with margin, higher ACR TI-RADS point 
scores, and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. In multivariate analyses, lobulated or 
irregular margin was independently associated with BRAFV600E mutation in total 
solitary PTC. Furthermore, both in total solitary PTC and papillary thyroid 
microcarcinoma, BRAFV600E mutation was associated with ACR TI-RADS point scores, 
which was positively correlated with the risk of BRAFV600E mutation. There was 
no significant relationship between BRAFV600E mutation and ACR TI-RADS point 
scores in PTC >10 mm. In addition, Hashimoto's thyroiditis had a significant 
negative association with BRAFV600E mutation.
CONCLUSION: A lobulated or irregular margin of the thyroid nodule is 
independently associated with BRAFV600E mutation in patients with PTC. In 
addition, higher ACR TI-RADS point scores is an independent risk factor for 
BRAFV600E mutation, and ACR TI-RADS point scores is positively associated with 
the risk of BRAFV600E mutation in solitary PTC, especially in papillary thyroid 
microcarcinoma. Our findings may be helpful for preoperative identification and 
medical management of PTC patients with BRAFV600E mutation.

Copyright © 2018 The Association of University Radiologists. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acra.2018.05.010
PMID: 29941398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Can J Neurol Sci. 2018 Sep;45(5):540-544. doi: 10.1017/cjn.2018.33. Epub
2018  Jun 25.

Long-Term Cognitive Outcomes in Patients with Autoimmune Encephalitis.

Hébert J(1), Day GS(2), Steriade C(3), Wennberg RA(4), Tang-Wai DF(4).

Author information:
(1)1Division of Neurology,University of Toronto,Toronto,Ontario,Canada.
(2)2Knight Alzheimer Disease Center,Department of Neurology,Washington 
University in St. Louis,Saint Louis,MO,USA.
(3)3Epilepsy Center,Neurological Institute,Cleveland Clinic 
Foundation,Cleveland,OH,USA.
(4)4Division of Neurology,University of Toronto,Toronto Western 
Hospital,Toronto,Canada.

BACKGROUND: A need exists to characterise the long-term cognitive outcomes in 
patients who recovered from autoimmune encephalitis and to identify the 
modifiable factors associated with improved outcomes.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed data from patients diagnosed with 
autoimmune encephalitis in our outpatient autoimmune encephalitis clinic over a 
5-year period, where the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) is routinely 
administered.
RESULTS: In total, 21 patients met the inclusion criteria, of whom 52% had 
persistent cognitive impairment at their latest follow-up (median delay to 
testing=20 months, range 13-182). Visuospatial and executive abilities, 
language, attention, and delayed recall were predominantly affected. Patients 
with status epilepticus at presentation had lower total MoCA scores at their 
last follow-up (median total score 21, range 15-29) compared with patients 
without status epilepticus at presentation (median total score 27.5, range 
21-30; r 2=0.366, p=0.004). Patients who experienced delays of more than 60 days 
from symptom onset to initiation of treatment (either immunosuppression or 
tumour removal) were more likely to have a MoCA score compatible with cognitive 
impairment at their last follow-up (r 2=0.253, p=0.0239; z-score=-2.01, 
p=0.044).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that the MoCA may be used to evaluate cognition 
in recovering patients with autoimmune encephalitis. Delays to treatment shorter 
than 60 days and absence of status epilepticus at onset were associated with 
better performance on the MoCA obtained more than 1 year after symptom onset, 
and may predict better long-term cognitive outcomes.

DOI: 10.1017/cjn.2018.33
PMID: 29936915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. J Endocrinol Invest. 2018 Dec;41(12):1409-1416. doi:
10.1007/s40618-018-0910-4.  Epub 2018 Jun 21.

How much of the predisposition to Hashimoto's thyroiditis can be explained based 
on previously reported associations?

Jabrocka-Hybel A(1), Skalniak A(2), Piątkowski J(3), Turek-Jabrocka R(1), 
Vyhouskaya P(4), Ludwig-Słomczyńska A(5), Machlowska J(5), Kapusta P(5), Małecki 
M(6), Pach D(1), Trofimiuk-Müldner M(1), Lizis-Kolus K(7), Hubalewska-Dydejczyk 
A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Medical Faculty, Jagiellonian University Medical 
College, Krakow, Poland.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital in Krakow, ul. Kopernika 17, 
31-501, Krakow, Poland. anna.skalniak@uj.edu.pl.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, University Hospital in Krakow, ul. Kopernika 17, 
31-501, Krakow, Poland.
(4)Department of Medical Diagnostics, Pharmacy Faculty, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(5)Center for Medical Genomics OMICRON, Jagiellonian University Medical College, 
Krakow, Poland.
(6)Department of Metabolic Diseases, Medical Faculty, Jagiellonian University 
Medical College, Krakow, Poland.
(7)Endocrinology Department-Oncology Center, Kielce, Poland.

PURPOSE: Our insight in the genetics of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) has become 
clearer through information provided by genome-wide association studies and 
candidate gene studies, but remains still not fully understood. Our aim was to 
assess how many different genetic risk variants contribute to the development of 
HT.
METHODS: 147 HT cases (10.2% men) and 147 controls (13.6% men) were qualified 
for the analysis. Intrinsic and environmental factors were controlled for. 
Polymorphisms (SNP) were chosen based on the literature and included markers of 
the genes PTPN22, CTLA4, TG, TPO among others, and of genomic regions pointed by 
GWAS studies. SNP were typed on a microarray. Variants in the HLA-DRB1 gene were 
identified by Sanger sequencing.
RESULTS: Multivariate predisposition to HT was modeled. Based on the 
investigated group, a model of seven variables was obtained. The variability 
explained by this model was assessed at only 5.4821% (p = 2 × 10-6), which 
indicates that many dozens of factors are required simultaneously to explain HT 
predisposition.
CONCLUSIONS: We analyzed genetic regions commonly and most significantly 
associated with autoimmune thyroid disorders in the literature, on a carefully 
selected cohort. Our results indicated a lack of possibility to predict the risk 
of HT development, even with a multivariate model. We therefore conclude that 
strong associations of single genetic regions with HT should be interpreted with 
great caution. We believe that a change in the attitude towards genetic 
association analyses of HT predisposition is necessary. Studies including 
multiple factors simultaneously are needed to unravel the intricacies of genetic 
associations with HT.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-018-0910-4
PMCID: PMC6244553
PMID: 29931474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: On behalf of all authors, 
the corresponding author states that there is no conflict of interest. ETHICAL 
APPROVAL: The study was approved by the Bioethical Committee of the Jagiellonian 
University in Krakow (No. KBET/68/B/2011). INFORMED CONSENT: All patients were 
informed about the reasons of the investigation and gave their written informed 
consent prior to participation in the study.


156. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Jun;97(25):e11211. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000011211.

Heterogeneity of tissue IL-17 and tight junction proteins expression 
demonstrated in patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases.

Zake T(1), Skuja S, Kalere I, Konrade I, Groma V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Anthropology Department of Internal Medicine, Riga 
Stradins University, Riga, Latvia.

Th17 cells together with their hallmark cytokine interleukin (IL)-17 were 
identified as crucial contributing factors in the pathogenesis of thyroid 
autoimmunity. The cytokine-regulated tight junction (Tj) disruption is thought 
to be essential in the initiation and/or development of several diseases. Still, 
the role of IL-17 maintaining Tj integrity in autoimmune thyroid diseases 
(AITDs) has not yet been evaluated. We aimed to investigate integrity of the 
thyroid follicle by studying immunoexpression of cellular Tj - zonula occludens 
(ZO)-1 and claudin-1 proteins coupled to IL-17A and CD68 detection in AITD 
patients compared with controls.Thirty-five adult patients undergoing 
thyroidectomy and presenting 18 cases of Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT), 7 of 
Graves' disease (GD) as well as 10 subjects of colloid goiter without autoimmune 
component served as controls were enrolled in this study. An immunohistochemical 
analysis including IL-17A, ZO-1, claudin-1, and CD68 detection was performed in 
each case. The correlation of IL-17A with Tj and CD68 in patients with AITD was 
also analyzed.Apart from inflammatory cells, we evidenced a stronger expression 
level of IL17A in the thyroid follicular cells in HT patients when compared with 
GD or colloid goiter. A significant reduction of ZO-1 immunoreactivity was 
observed in the thyrocytes in HT patients, whereas no significant differences 
were found in claudin-1 expression in HT and GD compared with colloid goiter 
patients. A significantly higher number of thyroid follicles with CD68-positive 
cells was found in HT patients than that in patients with GD or colloid goiter. 
In HT patients, the expression of IL-17A in the follicular cells was positively 
correlated with CD68 immunopositivity, whereas no association with claudin-1 or 
ZO-1 expression was found. GD patients did not reveal any significant 
correlation of IL-17A with Tj and CD68.Strong overexpression of IL-17A observed 
in the thyroid epithelial cells is associated with the presence of 
intrafollicular CD68-positive cells in HT patients. We evidenced the changes in 
molecules of thyrocyte junctional complexes highlighting impairment of the 
thyroid follicle integrity in HT, but no association with IL-17A was found.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000011211
PMCID: PMC6024462
PMID: 29924048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


157. Front Immunol. 2018 Jun 4;9:1197. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01197. eCollection
 2018.

Cytokine Secretion and Pyroptosis of Thyroid Follicular Cells Mediated by 
Enhanced NLRP3, NLRP1, NLRC4, and AIM2 Inflammasomes Are Associated With 
Autoimmune Thyroiditis.

Guo Q(1), Wu Y(1), Hou Y(1), Liu Y(1), Liu T(1), Zhang H(2), Fan C(1), Guan 
H(1), Li Y(1), Shan Z(1), Teng W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Institute of Endocrinology, 
Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, China.
(2)Department of Thyroid Surgery, The First Affiliated Hospital of China Medical 
University, Shenyang, China.

BACKGROUND: Inflammasomes, which mediate maturation of interleukin-1β (IL-β) and 
interleukin-18 (IL-18) and lead to pyroptosis, have been linked to various 
autoimmune disorders. This study investigated whether they are involved in the 
pathogenesis of autoimmune thyroiditis (AIT).
METHODS: We collected thyroid tissues from 50 patients with AIT and 50 sex- and 
age-matched controls. Serum levels of free T3, free T4, thyrotropin, thyroid 
peroxidase antibody (TPOAb), and thyroglobulin antibody (TgAb) were measured by 
electrochemiluminescent immunoassays. Expression of several inflammasome 
components, the NOD-like receptor (NLR) family pyrin domain containing 1 
(NLRP1), NLRP3, CARD-domain containing 4 (NLRC4), absent in melanoma 2 (AIM2), 
the apoptosis-associated speck-like protein that contains a caspase recruitment 
domain (ASC), caspase-1, IL-1β, and IL-18 was determined by real-time PCR and 
western blot. Immunohistochemistry was used to localize the expression of NLRP1, 
NLRP3, NLRC4, and AIM2. The Nthy-ori 3-1 thyroid cell line was stimulated with 
tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interferon-γ (IFN-γ), interleukin-17A, 
interleukin-6, and poly(dA:dT). The levels of IL-18 and IL-1β in the cell 
supernatant were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and lactate 
dehydrogenase was quantified by absorptiometry. ASC specks were examined by 
confocal immunofluorescence microscopic analysis. Cell death was examined by 
flow cytometry, and the N-terminal domain of gasdermin D was detected by western 
blot analysis.
RESULTS: Expression of NLRP1, NLRP3, NLRC4, AIM2, ASC, caspase-1, pro IL-1β, pro 
IL-18, mRNA, and protein was significantly increased in thyroid tissues from 
patients with AIT, and enhanced posttranslational maturation of caspase-1, IL-18 
and IL-1β was also observed. Expression of NLRP1, NLRP3, NLRC4, and AIM2 was 
localized mainly in thyroid follicular cells adjacent to areas of lymphatic 
infiltration. The thyroid mRNA level of NLRP1 and ASC was correlated to the 
serum TPOAb and TgAb levels in the AIT group. TNF-α and IFN-γ had a priming 
effect on the expression of multiple inflammasome components in thyroid cells. 
IFN-γ was found to strengthen poly(dA:dT)-induced cell pyroptosis and bioactive 
IL-18 release.
CONCLUSION: Our work has demonstrated for the first time that multiple 
inflammasomes are associated with AIT pathogenesis. The identified NLRP3, NLRP1, 
NLRC4, AIM2 inflammasomes and their downstream cytokines may represent potential 
therapeutic targets and biomarkers of AIT.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.01197
PMCID: PMC5994487
PMID: 29915579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. Eur Ann Otorhinolaryngol Head Neck Dis. 2018 Aug;135(4):291-293. doi: 
10.1016/j.anorl.2018.05.012. Epub 2018 Jun 18.

Primary squamous cell carcinoma of the thyroid associated with papillary thyroid 
carcinoma and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Kallel S(1), Kallel R(2), Ayadi S(3), Ghorbel A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Habib Bourguiba 
University Hospital, Sfax 3029, Tunisia. Electronic address: 
souha.kallel@yahoo.fr.
(2)Department of pathology, Habib Bourguiba University Hospital, Sfax 3029, 
Tunisia.
(3)Department of otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Habib Bourguiba 
University Hospital, Sfax 3029, Tunisia.

INTRODUCTION: We report the first case of squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the 
thyroid gland coexisting with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis and discuss various theories concerning the histogenesis of SCC of 
the thyroid gland and the optimal treatment strategy.
CASE REPORT: A 54-year-old woman presented with an anterior neck mass measuring 
4cm on clinical examination. Imaging showed a suspicious thyroid nodule invading 
the trachea. Total thyroidectomy with bilateral central lymph node resection was 
performed. Histological examination revealed tall cell variant of papillary 
thyroid carcinoma associated with SCC of the right lobe of the thyroid and 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Immunohistochemistry of the SCC showed positive 
staining for p53 and Ki67 and negative staining for thyroglobulin. The patient 
underwent adjuvant radioactive iodine therapy and radiotherapy. With 
postoperative follow-up of 24 months, the patient was in good health.
DISCUSSION: In conclusion, the most probable origin of SCC in this case was 
malignant transformation from Hashimoto's thyroiditis following a phase of 
metaplasia. This immunohistological profile is associated with a better 
prognosis. Optimal treatment consists of extensive surgical resection of tumour 
tissuefollowed by radiotherapy.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anorl.2018.05.012
PMID: 29914738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. J Med Case Rep. 2018 Jun 19;12(1):171. doi: 10.1186/s13256-018-1708-x.

Combination therapy of ipilimumab and nivolumab induced thyroid storm in a 
patient with Hashimoto's disease and diabetes mellitus: a case report.

Yonezaki K(1), Kobayashi T(2), Imachi H(1), Yoshimoto T(1), Kikuchi F(1), 
Fukunaga K(1), Sato S(1), Ibata T(1), Yamaji N(1), Lyu J(1), Dong T(1), Murao 
K(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa 
University, 1750-1, Miki-cho, Kita-gun, Kagawa, 761-0793, Japan.
(2)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa 
University, 1750-1, Miki-cho, Kita-gun, Kagawa, 761-0793, Japan. 
koba1987@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa 
University, 1750-1, Miki-cho, Kita-gun, Kagawa, 761-0793, Japan. 
mkoji@med.kagawa-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Recently, immune checkpoint inhibitors have widely been used for the 
management of advanced melanoma. However, high-grade immune-related adverse 
events can occur, particularly with combination immunotherapy. We report a case 
of a patient with melanoma who developed thyroid storm following treatment with 
ipilimumab and nivolumab.
CASE PRESENTATION: An 85-year-old Japanese man with a history of malignant 
melanoma presented to our department with severe thyrotoxicosis and poor blood 
glucose control. He was already being treated for Hashimoto's disease and type 2 
diabetes mellitus before the treatment for the melanoma. During admission, 
laboratory investigations revealed the following thyroid functions: 
thyroid-stimulating hormone below sensitivity, free triiodothyronine 31.7 pg/ml, 
and thyroglobulin 48,000 IU/ml. Thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor antibody 
was negative, and a 99mTc-labeled thyroid scan revealed a markedly decreased 
uptake. He was treated with beta-blocker, orally administered potassium iodine, 
a relatively low dose of prednisolone, and insulin injection therapy to control 
his blood glucose, resulting in an improvement in thyroid function and his 
symptoms.
CONCLUSION: It might be important to be aware of the possibility of thyroid 
storm induced by immune checkpoint inhibitors.

DOI: 10.1186/s13256-018-1708-x
PMCID: PMC6006841
PMID: 29914537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study is approved by the ethics committee of Faculty of Medicine, Kagawa 
University. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Written informed consent was obtained from 
the patient for publication of this case report and any accompanying images. A 
copy of the written consent is available for review by the Editor-in-Chief of 
this journal. COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors declare that they have no 
competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature remains neutral with 
regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional 
affiliations.


160. Transfus Apher Sci. 2018 Jun;57(3):418-420. doi:
10.1016/j.transci.2018.05.027.  Epub 2018 May 29.

Long-term plasma exchange as maintenance therapy for cerebellar-type Hashimoto's 
encephalopathy, a case report.

Tran MH(1), Mkhikian H(2), Sy M(3), Perez-Alvarez I(2), Demetriou M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, UC Irvine Health School of 
Medicine, United States; Department of Internal Medicine, UC Irvine Health 
School of Medicine, United States.
(2)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, UC Irvine Health School of 
Medicine, United States.
(3)Department of Neurology, UC Irvine Health School of Medicine, United States.
(4)Department of Neurology, UC Irvine Health School of Medicine, United States. 
Electronic address: mdemetri@uci.edu.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is a presumed autoimmune disorder associated 
with anti-thyroid autoantibodies and signs and symptoms of encephalopathy. A 
sub-type of HE is associated with cerebellar dysfunction and ataxia. 
Immunosuppressive therapy, particularly corticosteroid treatment, is utilized in 
the majority of cases. Short-term apheresis has been reported with variable 
patient responses. Here we report the case of a 72 year-old female with an 
∼15 year history of cerebellar type HE that had profound improvement in symptoms 
after long-term apheresis treatment over an ∼2 year period. Following an 
induction phase, twice-weekly maintenance apheresis of 1 plasma volume reversed 
long-standing severe gait ataxia that had required a walker, as well as mild 
cognitive symptoms. This paralleled reductions in anti-thyroid antibody levels. 
Holidays from apheresis lasting several weeks and/or reductions in maintenance 
apheresis frequency to once per-week resulted in re-expression of ataxia and 
cognitive impairments along with a rise in anti-thyroid antibody levels. An 
apheresis dose-effect was observed whereby parallel rise and fall in both 
symptomatology and antibody levels would mirror duration between apheresis 
intervals. To our knowledge, this is the first report of profound therapeutic 
benefit and a dose-response relationship to long-term apheresis in 
cerebellar-type HE. This case suggests that maintenance apheresis be considered 
in responsive patients, particularly in those with contraindications to medical 
immunosuppression.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transci.2018.05.027
PMID: 29891220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Endocr J. 2018 Sep 27;65(9):893-901. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ18-0003. Epub
2018  Jun 6.

Caveolin-1 regulates autophagy activity in thyroid follicular cells and is 
involved in Hashimoto's thyroiditis disease.

Lu Q(1), Luo X(1), Mao C(1)(2), Zheng T(1), Liu B(1), Dong X(1), Zhou Y(2), Xu 
C(1), Mou X(1), Wu F(1), Bu L(1), Yuan G(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu 
University, Zhenjiang 212001, China.
(2)Institute of Oncology, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu University, 
Zhenjiang 212001, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu University, 
Zhenjiang 212001, China.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is considered a T helper-type 1 (Th1) 
cytokine-dominant autoimmune thyroid disease. Caveolin-1 (Cav-1), a part of the 
thyroxisome multiprotein complex, is localized at the apical pole of thyrocytes 
and is indispensable for synthesis of thyroid hormones and modulation of 
oxidative stress in order to avoid cell damage and apoptosis. Reduced autophagy 
induces thyroid follicular cells (TFC) apoptosis by activating reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) in HT patients. Nevertheless, whether Cav-1 has roles in the 
regulation of autophagy remains largely unclear. In this study, we examined Th1 
cytokines and Cav-1 expression in HT thyroid tissues, determined the effects of 
interleukin-1beta (IL-1β) and interferon-gamma (IFN-γ) on Cav-1 and autophagy 
activity in TFC, and investigated the association between Cav-1 and autophagy 
activity in vitro. Our results indicate that higher levels of IL-1β and IFN-γ 
and lower levels of Cav-1 were expressed in thyroid tissues of HT patients than 
in those of normal controls. Cav-1 mRNA and protein levels were significantly 
decreased in TFC exposed to IL-1β and IFN-γ, accompanied by decreased expression 
of autophagy-related protein LC3B-II. Interestingly, small interfering RNA 
(siRNA)-mediated Cav-1 knockdown in TFC reduced LC3B-II protein expression. 
Taken together, these results suggest that lack of Cav-1 expression inhibited 
autophagy activity in TFC exposed to Th1 cytokines (IL-1β and IFN-γ), which 
might be a novel pathogenetic mechanism of HT.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ18-0003
PMID: 29877208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Rev Neurol. 2018 Jun 5;66(s02):S1-S6.

[Autoimmune encephalitis].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Guasp M(1), Arino H(1), Dalmau J(2)(1).

Author information:
(1)Hospital Clinic-IDIBAPS, Universidad de Barcelona, Barcelona, Espana.
(2)University of Pennsylvania School of Medicine, Philadelphia (Pennsylvania), 
EE.UU.

Autoimmune encephalitis are a new category of inflammatory diseases of the 
central nervous system mediated by antibodies that attack neurotransmitter or 
protein receptors on the surface of neurons. The clinical syndromes are complex 
and are associated with manifestations that vary according to the type of 
antibody that is associated. The autoimmune response can start due to the 
presence of a tumour or viral infection, but in many case the cause remains 
unknown. In paediatrics, the most frequent autoimmune encephalitis is that 
associated with NMDA glutamate receptor antibodies (or anti-NMDA encephalitis). 
In children and teenagers, the initial symptoms are usually different from those 
of adults and the disease is rarely associated with tumours. In this article, in 
addition to anti-NMDA encephalitis, the general aspects of autoimmune 
encephalitis are reviewed and the most common questions asked about treatment of 
these diseases are addressed.

Publisher: TITLE: Encefalitis autoinmunes.
Las encefalitis autoinmunes constituyen una nueva categoria de enfermedades 
inflamatorias del sistema nervioso central mediadas por anticuerpos contra 
receptores de neurotransmisores o proteinas de la superficie neuronal. Los 
sindromes clinicos son complejos y se asocian a manifestaciones que varian en 
funcion del tipo de anticuerpo asociado. La respuesta autoinmune puede iniciarse 
por la presencia de un tumor o infeccion virica, pero en muchos casos se 
desconoce la causa. En pediatria, la encefalitis autoinmune mas frecuente es la 
que se asocia a anticuerpos contra el receptor de glutamato NMDA (o encefalitis 
anti-NMDAR). En niños y adolescentes, los sintomas iniciales suelen ser 
diferentes a los de los adultos y la enfermedad raramente se asocia a tumores. 
En este articulo, ademas de la encefalitis anti-NMDAR, se revisan los aspectos 
generales de las encefalitis autoinmunes y se abordan las preguntas mas 
frecuentes que suscita el tratamiento de estas enfermedades.

PMID: 29876905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Rinsho Shinkeigaku. 2018 Jun 27;58(6):390-394. doi: 
10.5692/clinicalneurol.cn-001169. Epub 2018 Jun 1.

[A case of Hashimoto's encephalopathy successfully treated with cyclophosphamide 
pulse therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Matsuo K(1)(2), Koga M(1), Honda M(1), Kanda T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Clinical Neuroscience, Yamaguchi University 
Graduate School of Medicine.
(2)Present address: Department of Neurology, Yamaguchi Prefectural Grand Medical 
Center.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy has been described as an autoimmune disorder which 
demonstrates favorable response to corticosteroid therapy. However, 
steroid-resistant cases which require additional treatment are frequently 
reported, and there is no consensus how such cases should be treated. We present 
a 69 years-old man, who progressed cognitive dysfunction in the past three 
months. Anti-thyroid and anti-NH2 terminal of alpha-enolase antibodies were 
positive. Because initial corticosteroid therapy was ineffective, 
cyclophosphamide (CPA) pulse therapy was added, and his cognitive function was 
immediately improved. He had no relapse after tapering dose of corticosteroid 
for three years. CPA pulse therapy should be considered for steroid-resistant 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy.

DOI: 10.5692/clinicalneurol.cn-001169
PMID: 29863104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Med Hypotheses. 2018 Jul;116:122-123. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.05.010. Epub
2018  May 15.

Hypothesis: Persistently normal TSH levels may be used to recognize patients 
with transient forms of hypothyroidism and to suggest treatment withdrawal.

Tandeter H(1), Fraenkel M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Siaal Research Center for Family Medicine 
and Primary Care, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. 
Electronic address: howard@bgu.ac.il.
(2)Endocrine Unit, Soroka University Medical Center and the Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

There are no text-book recommendations on when or if treatment should or could 
be stopped in patients with a diagnosis of hypothyroidism, and these patients 
usually receive lifelong thyroxine therapy (despite the fact that some of them 
may have forms of transient hypothyroidism that will later recover function). 
Since TSH fluctuations during thyroxine treatment are common and a lack of this 
fluctuation might be used to identify patients who no longer need thyroxine 
treatment, we hypothesize that by offering patients with persistently controlled 
TSH levels a withdrawal trial of thyroxine treatment we may identify those who 
no longer need life-long treatment.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2018.05.010
PMID: 29857895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Immunol Res. 2018 Jun;66(3):425-430. doi: 10.1007/s12026-018-9005-8.

Is there an association between dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors and autoimmune 
disease? A population-based study.

Kridin K(1), Amber K(2), Khamaisi M(3)(4), Comaneshter D(5), Batat E(5), Cohen 
AD(5)(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Rambam Health Care Campus, POB 9602, 31096, Haifa, 
Israel. dr_kridin@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Dermatology, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.
(3)Internal Medicine D and Institute of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, 
Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa, Israel.
(4)Rappaport Faculty of Medicine, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, 
Haifa, Israel.
(5)Department of Quality Measurements and Research, Chief Physician's Office, 
Clalit Health Services, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(6)Siaal Research Center for Family Medicine and Primary Care, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.

The association of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors (DPP4is) with autoimmune 
diseases is controversial. While these agents were proposed as a novel 
therapeutic approach for several inflammatory diseases by blocking T cell 
proliferation and cytokine production, they were found to trigger inflammatroy 
bowel disease, inflammatory arthritis and bullous pemphigoid. Our objective is 
to examine the association between DPP4i and autoimmune diseases. This study was 
conducted as a cross-sectional study utilizing the database of Clalit Health 
Services. The prevalence of 15 autoimmune-/immune-mediated diseases was compared 
between patients on DPP4i treatment and age-, sex-, and ethnicity-matched 
controls. Univariate analysis was performed using chi-square and the Student t 
test and multivariate analysis was performed using a logistic regression model. 
The study included 283 patients treated with DPP4i agents and 5660 age-, sex-, 
and ethnicity-matched diabetic control subjects. The prevalence of Crohn's 
disease (1.1 vs. 0.3%; odds ratios (OR), 3.56; 95% CI, 1.04-12.21, P = 0.031), 
psoriasis (2.5 vs. 1.2%; OR, 2.12; 95% CI, 0.99-4.66; P = 0.050), and 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (16.6 vs. 12.6%; OR, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.00-1.91; P = 0.049) 
was significantly higher in patients on DPP4i treatment than in controls. The 
prevalence of the remaining autoimmune diseases did not differ significantly 
between DPP4i-treated patients and their matched control subjects. In 
conclusion, this population-based study demonstrates an association of DPP4i 
intake with three autoimmune and inflammatory diseases noted to be part of a 
distinct autoimmune cluster that includes multiple sclerosis, psoriasis, 
thyroiditis, bullous pemphigoid, and inflammatory bowel disease. Experimental 
studies are required to define the role of DPP4i in this autoimmune cluster.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-018-9005-8
PMID: 29855994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Head Neck Pathol. 2019 Sep;13(3):523-527. doi: 10.1007/s12105-018-0940-4.
Epub  2018 May 31.

IgG4-Related Disease of the Thyroid Gland Requiring Emergent Total 
Thyroidectomy: A Case Report.

Zhao Z(1), Lee YJ(2), Zheng S(3), Khor LY(1), Lim KH(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Pathology, Department of Anatomical Pathology, Singapore General 
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore, 
Singapore.
(4)Division of Pathology, Department of Anatomical Pathology, Singapore General 
Hospital, Singapore, Singapore. lim.kok.hing@singhealth.com.sg.

IgG4-related disease of the thyroid gland is a recently recognized subtype of 
thyroiditis, often with rapid progression requiring surgical treatment. It is 
considered as a spectrum of disease varying from early IgG4-related Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis (HT) pattern to late fibrosing HT or Riedel's thyroiditis patterns. 
Here, we report a 47-year-old Malay woman presenting with progressively painless 
neck swelling over 3 years and subclinical hypothyroidism. Computed tomography 
(CT) scan revealed diffuse thyroid enlargement (up to 13 cm) with retrosternal 
extension and without regional lymphadenopathy. Fine needle aspiration of the 
thyroid showed a limited number of follicular epithelial cell groups with 
widespread Hurthle cell change and scanty background colloid, but no evidence of 
lymphocytosis. The cytologic features fell into the category of 'atypia of 
undetermined significance'. Subsequently, the patient developed hypercapnic 
respiratory failure secondary to extrinsic upper airway compression by the 
thyroid mass and underwent emergent total thyroidectomy. Histology of the 
thyroid showed diffuse dense lymphoplasmacytic infiltrate and fibrosis. 
Follicular cells exhibited reactive nuclear features and some Hurthle cell 
change. IgG4+ plasma cells were over 40/high power field while overall IgG4/IgG 
ratio was above 50%. The overall features suggest the diagnosis of IgG4-related 
disease of the thyroid gland in the form of IgG4-related HT. Post-surgery, the 
patient was found to have markedly elevated serum IgG4 concentration but PET/CT 
did not show significant increased fludeoxyglucose uptake in other areas. Her 
recovery was complicated by a ventilator-associated pneumonia with empyema, 
limiting early use of corticosteroids for treatment of IgG4-related disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s12105-018-0940-4
PMCID: PMC6684687
PMID: 29855801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. Endocr J. 2018 Aug 27;65(8):815-826. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ18-0050. Epub
2018  May 30.

Association of the polymorphisms in Th2 chemotaxis-related genes with the 
development and prognosis of autoimmune thyroid diseases.

Omori N(1), Watanabe M(1), Inoue N(1)(2), Taniguchi J(1), Hidaka Y(2), Iwatani 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Informatics, Division of Health Sciences, Osaka 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan.
(2)Laboratory for Clinical Investigation, Osaka University Hospital, Suita, 
Osaka 565-0871, Japan.

The prognosis of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) is difficult to predict. Th2 
cells suppress the differentiation of Th1 and Th17 cells, which are associated 
with the prognosis of AITD. However, there are few reports as to whether Th2 
chemotaxis-related genes, such as CRTH2 (chemoattractant receptor-homologous 
molecule expressed on Th2 cells), IL-25, TARC/CCL17 (Thymus and activation 
regulated chemokine/chemokine ligand 17) or STAT6 (Signal transducer and 
activator of transcription 6), affect the pathology of and/or susceptibility to 
AITD. Therefore, in this study, we genotyped functional SNPs in these genes to 
clarify the association of the genetic differences of genes related to Th2 
differentiation and chemotaxis with the development and the prognosis of AITDs. 
The frequencies of the AA genotype of the CRTH2 rs545659 SNP and the CC genotype 
and the C allele of the CRTH2 rs634681 SNP were higher in patients with severe 
HD than in patients with mild HD. The frequency of the CC genotype in the TARC 
rs223828 SNP was higher in patients with intractable GD than in patients with GD 
in remission. In conclusion, the CRTH2 rs545659 and rs634681 SNPs were 
associated with the severity of HD, and the TARC/CCL17 rs223828 SNP was 
associated with the intractability of GD.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ18-0050
PMID: 29848886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Int J Biol Markers. 2018 May;33(2):161-167. doi: 10.1177/1724600817748538.

Diagnostic value of CD56 immunohistochemistry in thyroid lesions.

Pyo JS(1), Kim DH(2), Yang J(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Pathology, Eulji University Hospital, Eulji University School 
of Medicine, Daejeon - Republic of Korea.
(2)2 Department of Pathology, Kangbuk Samsung Hospital, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul - Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: The present study aimed to evaluate the diagnostic roles of CD56 
immunohistochemistry in differentiating various thyroid lesions.
METHODS: A meta-analysis was performed to evaluate the rate of loss of CD56 
immunohistochemistry expression from 13 eligible studies regarding various 
thyroid lesions, including papillary thyroid carcinoma, follicular carcinoma, 
and follicular adenoma. To confirm the value of CD56 immunohistochemistry in 
differentiating various thyroid lesions, a diagnostic test accuracy review was 
conducted.
RESULTS: An 87.8%, 79.1%, 11.9%, 25.5%, and 19.6% loss of CD56 
immunohistochemistry expression was identified in papillary thyroid carcinoma, 
follicular carcinoma, follicular adenoma, benign follicular nodule, and 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis, respectively. In the normal thyroid tissue, the rate of 
loss of CD56 expression was 1.6%. Classical, follicular, diffuse sclerosing, 
tall cell, and encapsulated variants of papillary thyroid carcinoma showed an 
88.4%, 75.3%, 97.2%, 91.7%, and 91.7% loss of CD56 expression, respectively. In 
the comparison between the follicular variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma and 
follicular adenoma, the pooled sensitivity and specificity of CD56 
immunohistochemistry was 0.82 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.70, 0.90) and 0.94 
(95% CI 0.83, 0.99), respectively. The diagnostic odds ratio and the area under 
curve on summary receiver operating characteristic curve was 51.43 (95% CI 5.83, 
453.88) and 0.9387, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Collectively, these results indicate that the rate of loss of CD56 
immunohistochemistry expression was significantly higher in malignant tumors, 
such as papillary thyroid carcinoma and follicular carcinoma, than in follicular 
adenoma, benign follicular nodule, and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. As such, CD56 
immunohistochemistry can be useful in differentiating follicular variant 
papillary thyroid carcinoma from follicular adenoma.

DOI: 10.1177/1724600817748538
PMID: 29799356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. J Endocrinol Invest. 2019 Feb;42(2):199-205. doi: 10.1007/s40618-018-0903-3.
 Epub 2018 May 23.

Increased serum interleukin-37 (IL-37) levels correlate with oxidative stress 
parameters in Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Ruggeri RM(1)(2), Cristani M(3), Vicchio TM(4), Alibrandi A(5), Giovinazzo S(4), 
Saija A(3), Campennì A(6), Trimarchi F(7), Gangemi S(8).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Endocrinology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy. rmruggeri@unime.it.
(2)UOC di Endocrinologia, Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Sperimentale, 
Padiglione H, 4 piano - Policlinico Universitario "G. Martino", 98125, Messina, 
Italy. rmruggeri@unime.it.
(3)Department of Chemical, Biological, Pharmaceutical and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(4)Unit of Endocrinology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(5)Unit of Statistical and Mathematical Sciences, Department of Economics, 
University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(6)Unit of Nuclear Medicine, Department of Biomedical and Dental Sciences, and 
Morpho-Functional Images, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(7)Accademia Peloritana dei Pericolanti, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(8)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Postgraduate School and 
Division of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, University of Messina, Messina, 
Italy.

PURPOSE: Interleukin-37 (IL-37), member of the IL-1 family, is a natural 
suppressor of immune and inflammatory responses. Increased serum IL-37 levels 
were observed in several autoimmune diseases, including Graves' disease. To our 
knowledge, no data on Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) are available in the 
literature.
METHODS: Aim of our study was to measure serum IL-37 levels and evaluate their 
relationship, if any, with oxidative stress markers in HT patients. We enrolled 
45 euthyroid HT patients (5 M e 40 F, median age 40 years) and 50 age- and 
sex-matched healthy controls. None was under L-thyroxine therapy. Serum IL-37 
levels were measured by ELISA. Specific serum tests, such as derived reactive 
oxygen metabolites (d-ROMs), and biological anti-oxidant potential (BAP) test 
were performed in all subjects to investigate the changes in oxidative balance, 
and advanced glycation end products (AGEs) were determined as a specific marker 
of oxidative stress.
RESULTS: IL-37 levels were significantly higher in HT than in controls (median 
475 vs. 268 pg/ml, P = 0.018). In the same patients, serum oxidants (d-ROMs) 
were increased and anti-oxidants (BAP) decreased compared with controls 
(P = 0.011 and < 0.0001, respectively), clearly indicating an enhanced oxidative 
stress. In addition, AGEs levels were higher in HT patients than in controls 
(210 vs. 140 AU/g prot, P < 0.0001) and directly correlated with IL-37 levels 
(P = 0.048). At multivariate analysis, the main independent predictors that 
influenced IL-37 levels were both anti-thyroid antibodies (P = 0.026) and AGEs 
levels (P = 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: IL-37 is up-regulated in HT and may exert a protective role by 
counteracting oxidative stress and inflammation.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-018-0903-3
PMID: 29796799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 May;97(21):e10814. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000010814.

Multiple intracranial lesions as the unusual imaging features of Hashimoto's 
encephalopathy: A case report.

Kong FX(1), Lu QH, Guo ZK.

Author information:
(1)Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine Clinical Medical School of Shenzhen 
Department of Encephalopathy and Psychology, Shenzhen Traditional Chinese 
Medicine Hospital, Shenzhen, Guangdong, China.

RATIONALE: Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is associated with autoimmune thyroid 
disease and is complex, diverse, and easily misdiagnosed. However, if HE is 
diagnosed and treated in a timely manner, an optimal prognosis may be achieved.
PATIENT CONCERNS: We presented a case of a 63-year-old female patient with 
paroxysmal dizziness, unsteady gait, emotion apathy, progressive cognitive 
impairment, and unusual magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings.
DIAGNOSES: After suffering for almost 8 years, the patient was diagnosed with HE 
based on clinical manifestation, abnormal electroencephalogram, unusual MRI 
findings, sensitivity to cortisol treatment, and characteristic high antithyroid 
peroxidase antibody (TpoAb) titer.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient continued regular glucocorticoids therapy after 
intravenous methylprednisolone pulse therapy, neurotrophic drugs, traditional 
Chinese medicine and rehabilitation to relieve hypermyotonia and cognitive 
impairment.
OUTCOMES: After combined treatment, the patient's symptoms, electroencephalogram 
(EEG), MRI, and the TpoAb titer gradually improved. However, the patient had to 
stop glucocorticoids treatment because of severe osteoporosis, fractures and 
other adverse reactions. Her symptoms fluctuated, and her TpoAb titer increased 
again.
LESSONS: HE may cause highly heterogeneous clinical features, particularly MRI 
findings. Withdrawal of the systematic glucocorticoids treatment can lead to 
varied outcomes in these patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010814
PMCID: PMC6393037
PMID: 29794766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


171. Clin EEG Neurosci. 2019 Mar;50(2):121-128. doi: 10.1177/1550059418774686.
Epub  2018 May 22.

EEG Differences in Two Clinically Similar Rapid Dementias: Voltage-Gated 
Potassium Channel Complex-Associated Autoimmune Encephalitis and 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease.

Freund B(1), Probasco JC(1), Cervenka MC(1), Sutter R(2), Kaplan PW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Neurology and Intensive Care Units, University Hospital Basel, 
Basel, Switzerland.
(3)Department of Neurology, Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, Baltimore, MD, 
USA.

Distinguishing treatable causes for rapidly progressive dementia from those that 
are incurable is vital. Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and voltage-gated 
potassium channel complex-associated autoimmune encephalitis (VGKC AE) are 2 
such conditions with disparate outcomes and response to treatment. To determine 
the differences in electroencephalography between CJD and VGKC AE, we performed 
a retrospective review of medical records and examined clinical data, 
neuroimaging, and electroencephalographs performed in patients admitted for 
evaluation for rapidly progressive dementia diagnosed with CJD and VGKC AE at 
the Johns Hopkins Hospital and Bayview Medical Center between January 1, 2007 
and December 31, 2015. More patients in the VGKC AE group had seizures (12/17) 
than those with CJD (3/14; P = .008). Serum sodium levels were lower in those 
with VGKC AE (P = .001). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) white blood cell count was 
higher in VGKC AE (P = .008). CSF protein 14-3-3 (P = .018) was more commonly 
detected in CJD, and tau levels were higher in those with CJD (P < .006). On 
neuroimaging, diffusion restriction in the cortex (P = .001), caudate (P < 
.001), and putamen (P = .001) was more frequent in CJD. Periodic sharp wave 
complexes (P = .001) and generalized suppressed activity (P = .008) were more 
common on initial EEG in CJD. On serial EEGs, generalized periodic discharges (P 
= .004), generalized suppressed activity (P=0.008), and periodic sharp wave 
complexes (P < .001) were detected more in CJD. This study shows that there are 
a number of differentiating features between CJD and VGKC AE, and 
electroencephalography can aid in their diagnoses. Performing serial EEGs better 
delineates these conditions.

DOI: 10.1177/1550059418774686
PMID: 29788790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. Neoplasma. 2018 Mar 14;65(3):436-440. doi: 10.4149/neo_2018_170428N317.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis, nodular goiter or follicular adenoma combined with 
papillary thyroid carcinoma play protective role in patients.

Ma H(1), Li L(1), Li K(1), Wang T(1), Zhang Y(1), Zhang C(1), Xu Y(1), Wu X(1), 
Yu J(1), Wang H(1)(2), Xiang B(3), Zhang R(1), Wang W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical University, 
Jining, China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Traditional Chinese Medicine Hospital of Juye 
County, Heze, China.
(3)Cancer Research Institute, Xiangya School of Medicine, Central South 
University, Changsha, China.

Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is often combined with other types of thyroid 
disease, such as Hashimoto's thyroiditis(HT), nodular goiter(NG), Follicular 
adenoma(FA) and other types. However, the function of these diseases in PTC 
tumorigenesis and development is not well understood. In this research, 563 PTC 
patients were recruited and divided into two groups according to pathological 
diagnosis, namely simple PTC (PTC) and PTC combined with other thyroid diseases 
(PTC+). Clinicopathological characteristics and BRAFV600E mutation status were 
compared between PTC and PTC+. Our data showed that there was a statistically 
significant difference in gender (P=0.007), tumor diameter (5mm, P=0.012; 1cm, 
P=0.042), lymph node metastasis (P=0.000) and BRAFV600E mutation status 
(P=0.001) between PTC and PTC+. PTC+ patients have lower lymph node metastasis 
rate, even if PTC nodule diameter is larger than 5mm (P=0.005) or ≥1cm (P=0.049) 
or BRAFV600E is mutated (P=0.001). In conclusion, our study suggests that HT, NG 
and FA, are protective factors of PTC patients, and PTC+ patients have lower 
lymph node metastasis and BRAFV600E mutation rate compared with simple PTC 
patients.

DOI: 10.4149/neo_2018_170428N317
PMID: 29788738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Ultrasound Med. 2019 Jan;38(1):97-102. doi: 10.1002/jum.14667. Epub 2018
May  21.

Thyroid Microcalcifications in the Absence of Identifiable Nodules and Their 
Association With Thyroid Cancer.

Whittle C(1), García M(2), Horvath E(1), Slater J(3), Carrasco C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Universidad del Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Universidad del Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile.
(3)Department of Pathology, Facultad de Medicina, Clinica Alemana, Universidad 
del Desarrollo, Santiago, Chile.

OBJECTIVES: To determine ultrasound (US) and clinical findings of thyroid 
microcalcifications in the absence of a nodule and their association with the 
risk of malignancy.
METHODS: The Institutional Review Board approved a 5-year retrospective study. 
Twenty-one patients with clustered or scattered thyroid microcalcifications in 
the absence of nodules on US images who underwent fine-needle aspiration 
biopsies (FNABs) were included. Demographic and clinical data, US findings, and 
pathologic results were registered. Patients with a suspicion of malignancy or 
papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) on FNAB underwent thyroidectomy. Patients with 
benign results on FNAB underwent clinical and US surveillance.
RESULTS: The mean age of the 21 patients was 33.2 years (29.5 years in patients 
with PTC patients and 39.4 years in those with benign findings; P = .034). 
Eleven of 21 patients had clustered microcalcifications (9 had cancer), and 10 
of 21 patients had scattered microcalcifications (4 of 10 had cancer; 
P = 0.063). Sixty-two percent of the patients had FNAB findings that were 
suspicious for cancer or had a diagnosis of cancer. Eleven of 13 patients had 
surgical thyroidectomy performed in our institution; in all cases, Hashimoto 
thyroiditis was confirmed. Univariate and multivariate analysis showed that only 
age was significant (odds ratio, 0.9; P < .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study suggests that the presence of thyroid microcalcifications 
without a nodule is suspicious for PTC. We found that both patterns were 
suspicious for PTC, particularly in young patients. Special concern arises for 
those clustered microcalcifications on a background of Hashimoto thyroiditis.

© 2018 by the American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/jum.14667
PMID: 29781213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Rural Remote Health. 2018 May;18(2):4384. doi: 10.22605/RRH4384. Epub 2018
May  20.

Massive pericardial effusion without cardiac tamponade due to subclinical 
hypothyroidism (Hashimoto's disease).

Papakonstantinou PE(1), Gourniezakis N(2), Skiadas C(3), Patrianakos A(4), Gikas 
A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Heraklion, Heraklion, 
Crete, Greece pantelispapakon@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Heraklion, Heraklion, 
Crete, Greece gournie9@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Radiology, University Hospital of Heraklion, Heraklion, Crete, 
Greece skiadaschristos@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Cardiology, University Hospital of Heraklion, Heraklion, Crete, 
Greece apatrianakos@yahoo.gr.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, University Hospital of Heraklion, Heraklion, 
Crete, Greece gikas.achilles@uoc.gr.

CONTEXT: Hypothyroidism is a significant cause of pericardial effusion. However, 
large pericardial effusions due to hypothyroidism are extremely rare. Hormone 
replacement therapy is the cornerstone of treatment for hypothyroidism and 
regular follow-up of patients after initiation of the therapy is indicated. 
Herein, the case of a 70-year-old woman with a massive pericardial effusion due 
to Hashimoto's disease is presented.
ISSUES: A 70-year-old female from a rural village on the island of Crete, 
Greece, was admitted to our hospital due to a urinary tract infection. She was 
under hormone replacement therapy with levothyroxine 100 &micro;g once a day for 
Hashimoto's disease. Two years previously, the patient had had an episode of 
pericarditis due to hypothyroidism and had undergone a computed 
tomography-guided pericardiocentesis. The patient did not have regular follow-up 
and did not take the hormone replacement therapy properly. On admission, the 
patient's chest X-ray incidentally showed a possible pericardial effusion. The 
patient was referred for echocardiography, which revealed a massive pericardial 
effusion. Beck's triad was absent. Thyroid hormones were consistent with 
subclinical hypothyroidism: thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) 30.25 mIU/mL 
(normal limits: 0.25-3.43); free thyroxin 4 0.81 ng/dL (normal limits: 
0.7-1.94). The patient had a score of 5 on the scale outlined by the European 
Society of Cardiology (ESC) position statement on triage strategy for cardiac 
tamponade and, despite the absence of cardiac tamponade, a pericardiocentesis 
was performed after 48 hours. The patient was treated with 125 &micro;g 
levothyroxine orally once daily.
LESSONS LEARNED: This was a rare case of an elderly female patient from a rural 
village with chronic massive pericardial effusion due to subclinical 
hypothyroidism without cardiac tamponade. Hypothyroidism should be included in 
the differential diagnosis of pericardial effusion, especially in a case of 
unexplained pericardial fluid. Initiation of hormone replacement therapy should 
be personalised in elderly patients. TSH levels >10 mU/L usually require therapy 
with levothyroxine in order to prevent adverse events. Rural patients usually do 
not have regular follow-up after the initiation of hormone replacement therapy. 
Pericardial effusions due to hypothyroidism grow slowly and subclinical 
hypothyroidism rarely shows signs and symptoms and can be underdiagnosed. The 
ESC position statement on triage strategy for pericardial diseases is a valuable 
clinical tool to estimate the necessity for pericardial drainage in such cases.

DOI: 10.22605/RRH4384
PMID: 29778090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. J Endocrinol Invest. 2019 Feb;42(2):175-181. doi: 10.1007/s40618-018-0899-8.
 Epub 2018 May 18.

Irisin levels increase after treatment in patients with newly diagnosed 
Hashimoto thyroiditis.

Uc ZA(1), Gorar S(2), Mizrak S(3), Gullu S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Usak University School of Medicine, Usak, 
Turkey. ziynetalp@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Antalya Training and Research Hospital, Antalya, 
Turkey.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Usak University School of Medicine, Usak, Turkey.
(4)Department of Endocrinology, Ankara University School of Medicine, Ankara, 
Turkey.

PURPOSE: Irisin is a newly identified myokine secreted by skeletal muscle and 
has significant effects on body metabolism. Thyroidal functional state has a 
profound influence on the metabolism of human body. Therefore, the aim of this 
study was to investigate the possible changes in serum irisin concentrations 
before and after treatment in hypothyroid subjects.
METHODS: The study included 26 patients with overt hypothyroidism due to 
Hashimoto thyroiditis and 19 healthy subjects. Baseline serum thyroid function 
tests and presence of thyroid autoantibodies and levels of creatine kinase (CK) 
and irisin were measured in both groups. All measurements in the hypothyroid 
group were repeated after euthyroidism was achieved.
RESULTS: Serum irisin levels were significantly lower in the hypothyroid groups 
than the control group (p < 0.001). Negative correlation between irisin and 
thyroid stimulating hormone and CK levels (r = - 0.623, p < 0.001 and 
r = - 0.389, p = 0.008, respectively) and a positive correlation between irisin 
and free thyroxine (fT4) levels (r = 0.570, p < 0.001) was found. Serum CK 
levels decreased significantly after treatment (p < 0.001). Serum irisin levels 
significantly increased (from 57.4 to 99.8 U/L, p < 0.001) when the hypothyroid 
patients were treated to achieve euthyroidism.
CONCLUSIONS: To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study providing 
insight that low serum irisin levels significantly increased following treatment 
to euthyroid state in overt hypothyroid patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis. 
Larger scale studies are needed to confirm these results and to ensure irisin as 
a possible biomarker of Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-018-0899-8
PMID: 29777516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. J Orofac Orthop. 2018 Jul;79(4):277-288. doi: 10.1007/s00056-018-0140-6.
Epub  2018 May 17.

Prevalence of temporomandibular disorders in patients with Hashimoto 
thyroiditis.

[Article in English]

Grozdinska A(1), Hofmann E(2), Schmid M(3), Hirschfelder U(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthodontics and Orofacial Orthopedics, University of Erlangen 
Medical School, Erlangen, Germany. grozdinska@icloud.com.
(2)Department of Orthodontics and Orofacial Orthopedics, University of 
Regensburg Medical School, Regensburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Medical Biometry, Informatics and Epidemiology, Rheinische 
Friedrichs-Wilhelms University, Bonn, Germany.
(4)Department of Orthodontics and Orofacial Orthopedics, University of Erlangen 
Medical School, Erlangen, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD), also known as Hashimoto 
thyroiditis (HT), is a degenerative inflammatory disease with high prevalence 
among women and has been associated with fibromyalgia and widespread chronic 
pain. The goal was to determine the frequency of temporomandibular disorders 
(TMD) in patients with HT.
METHODS: In all, 119 women (age 19-60 years) were divided into a study (52 women 
diagnosed with HT) and a control (67 healthy individuals, of which 15 were 
excluded) group. Serum concentrations of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), free 
triiodothyronine (fT3), free thyroxine (fT4), anti-thyroglobulin (Tg) and 
anti-thyroid peroxidase (TPO) antibody levels were measured. The 
temporomandibular jaw and muscles were examined using the German Society of 
Functional Diagnostics and Therapy guidelines. The Research Diagnostic Criteria 
for Temporomandibular Disorders (RDC/TMD) was used to assess TMD. Standardized 
questionnaires, incorporating epidemiological criteria, state and treatment of 
the thyroid disease, Helkimo Index (HI), and Fonseca Anamnestic Index (FAI), 
were filled out by all patients.
RESULTS: The two groups did not differ in terms of demographic parameters or 
mandibular jaw mobility. Significantly higher levels of anti-TPO and anti-Tg 
were attested in all subjects of the HT group. Markedly elevated prevalence of 
TMD was found in the HT group. Muscle pain and stiffness were found in 45 
(86.5%) subjects of the HT group (p < 0.001), of whom 33 (63.4%) also had disc 
displacement with reposition (p < 0.001). Whereas 50% of the control group 
showed no TMD symptoms, all subjects in the HT group had symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: A significantly elevated prevalence of TMD was found in patients 
with HT. Thus, patients with TMD who do not respond to therapy should be 
referred for thyroid diagnostic workup.

DOI: 10.1007/s00056-018-0140-6
PMID: 29777250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. J Clin Res Pediatr Endocrinol. 2018 Nov 29;10(4):331-335. doi: 
10.4274/jcrpe.0047. Epub 2018 May 16.

Evaluation of the Ovarian Reserve in Adolescents with Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis 
Using Serum Anti-Müllerian Hormone Levels.

Özalp Akın E(1), Aycan Z(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Health Sciences, Dr. Sami Ulus Children’s Health and Disease 
Training and Research Hospital, Clinic of Pediatrics, Ankara, Turkey
(2)University of Health Sciences, Ankara Dışkapı Yıldırım Beyazıt Training and 
Research Hospital, Clinic of Pediatric Endocrinology, Ankara, Turkey

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to evaluate ovarian reserve in adolescent girls with 
Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (HT) by assessment of serum anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) 
levels. It was hypothesized that HT decreases ovarian reserve and AMH levels are 
lower in the HT group.
METHODS: Thirty HT patients, aged between 10-18 years, and 30 healthy girls as 
the control group were enrolled in this cross-sectional study. The mean serum 
AMH levels of the groups were compared using the Mann-Whitney U test.
RESULTS: There was no statistically significant difference between the patient 
and the control groups in terms of serum AMH levels. There was a negative 
correlation between serum AMH and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels and 
no correlation between serum AMH and anti-thyroid peroxidase (anti-TPO) or 
anti-thyroglobulin (anti-Tg) antibody levels.
CONCLUSION: Our results show that ovarian reserve of adolescent girls, as 
measured by serum AMH levels, is not affected by HT. Autoimmune damage to the 
ovaries may take time and the adolescent period may be too early to see these 
effects. Follow up of the patients for reproductive abnormalities and initiation 
of prospective studies is recommended.

DOI: 10.4274/jcrpe.0047
PMCID: PMC6280326
PMID: 29764793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 May;97(19):e0696. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000010696.

Coexistence of Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome and autoimmune encephalitis 
with anti-CRMP5/CV2 and anti-GABAB receptor antibodies in small cell lung 
cancer: A case report.

Li H(1), Zhang A, Hao Y, Guan H, Lv Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Affiliated Hospital of Jining Medical University, 
Jining Department of Neurology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese 
Academy of Medical Sciences, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

RATIONALE: Autoimmune encephalitis and Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome are 
classic paraneoplastic neurological conditions common in patients with small 
cell lung cancer.
PATIENT CONCERNS: The patient complained of tiredness, fluctuating recent memory 
loss, and inability to find his home. His family members reported a change in 
character, irritability, and paranoia. One month later, the patient had 1 grand 
mal seizure lasting 5 minutes.
DIAGNOSIS: The patient was diagnosed with limbic encephalitis combined with 
Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome. The gamma-aminobutyric acid B (GABAB) 
receptor and collapsin response mediator protein 5 (CRMP5, also called CV2) 
antibody test results were positive. Nine months after the onset of symptoms, 
the patient was diagnosed with small cell lung cancer.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient was administered intravenous immunoglobulin for 5 
days. He was then treated with 60 mg prednisone once per day. The prednisone 
dose was gradually reduced by 1 tablet every 2 weeks. After the diagnosis, the 
patient underwent 6 courses of chemotherapy with cisplatin combined with 
sequential chemoradiation therapy.
OUTCOMES: The patient was able to take care of himself. Neurological examination 
revealed a lower limb proximal muscle strength level of 4 and a reduced limb 
tendon reflex. The patient had deficits in short-term memory, a Mini-Mental 
State Examination score of 26, Montreal Cognitive Assessment score of 24, 
Self-rating Depression Scale score of 54 (mild depression), and Self-Rating 
Anxiety Scale score of 42 (normal).
LESSONS: Autoimmune diseases of the peripheral and central nervous systems can 
be observed at the same time in patients with small cell lung cancer, even when 
magnetic resonance imaging findings are negative and immune therapy is 
effective.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000010696
PMCID: PMC5959409
PMID: 29742721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest. The 
authors alone are responsible for the content and writing of the paper.


179. Epilepsy Behav. 2018 Jul;84:29-36. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2018.04.007. Epub
2018  May 5.

Predictive values and specificity of electroencephalographic findings in 
autoimmune encephalitis diagnosis.

Limotai C(1), Denlertchaikul C(2), Saraya AW(3), Jirasakuldej S(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Chulalongkorn University, Thailand; Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Center 
of Excellence (CCEC), The Thai Red Cross Society, Thailand. Electronic address: 
Chusak.L@chula.ac.th.
(2)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Chulalongkorn University, Thailand.
(3)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Chulalongkorn University, Thailand; Neuroscience Center for Research & 
Development, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, Thailand; Thai Red Cross 
Emerging Infectious Disease Center, King Chulalongkorn Memorial Hospital, The 
Thai Red Cross Society, Thailand.
(4)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Chulalongkorn University, Thailand; Chulalongkorn Comprehensive Epilepsy Center 
of Excellence (CCEC), The Thai Red Cross Society, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: Early diagnosis of autoimmune encephalitis (AE) to not delay 
treatment is challenging but needed in practice. Most previous evidences of 
electroencephalographic (EEG) findings in AE were derived from descriptive 
studies. Given paucity of evidence of specific EEG findings to help with early 
diagnosis of AE, this study aimed to ascertain specific EEG findings and assess 
their predictive values in diagnosis of AE.
METHODS: We included all cases with AE in our institution from January 2013 to 
June 2017. Cases were matched with controls by age and level of consciousness 
(1:2 ratio). Potential confounders for EEG findings collected as baseline 
characteristics were compared. Two epileptologists independently reviewed EEGs. 
Standardized terminology, definitions, and scoring system of EEG findings were 
employed. Logistic regression analysis was performed, and diagnostic performance 
of significant EEG features was assessed.
RESULTS: Twenty cases and 40 controls were included in this study. Poorly 
sustained posterior dominant rhythm (PDR) was significantly associated with AE 
(p = 0.007) and even more predictive in anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) 
encephalitis. Inter-rater agreement (kappa) was 0.714. None of the cases had 
normal EEG nor Grand Total EEG (GTE) score < 4 (negative predictive value (NPV) 
of 100%). Specificity of well sustained PDR to exclude the diagnosis of 
anti-NMDA encephalitis was high (91.67%).
CONCLUSIONS: Simple EEG assessment can be used to help exclude AE. When AE is 
suspected, careful assessment of the sustainment of the PDR is warranted. The 
NPV of GTE score < 4 and specificity of well sustained PDR can be simply used to 
differentiate many conditions from AE.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2018.04.007
PMID: 29738958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Sichuan Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2018 Mar;49(2):179-182.

[Correlation of Thyroid Autoantibodies,System Lupus Erythematosus Immunologic 
Indicators and Disease Activity in SLE with HT].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu H(1), Yang LH(2), Yin G(3), Xie QB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology,West China Hospital,Sichuan 
University,Chengdu 610041,China.
(2)Nanchang University Queen Mary College,Nanchang 330031,China.
(3)Department of International Medical Center/General Practice,West China 
Hospital,Sichuan University,Chengdu 610041,China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the correlation of disease activity and thyroid 
indicators ,immunologic markers of system lupus erythematosus (SLE) in SLE with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT).
METHODS: The clinical data of 63 cases of SLE with HT were collected. According 
to Systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index 2000 (SLEDAI-2000),we 
classified the patients into four groups,which were remission group (5 
cases),low (19 cases),moderate (12 cases) and high (27 cases) disease activity 
group. Each patient received the measurement of thyroid function indicators and 
autoantibodies,SLE immunologic indicators,serum complement (C3,C4),C-reactive 
protein (CRP),erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and routine blood test. The 
correlation of thyroid indicators,immunologic markers and disease activity were 
analyzed.
RESULTS: The difference of free triiodothyronine (FT3) level in the four groups 
was statistically significant (P<0.05),and FT3 was negatively correlated with 
SLE disease activity (P=0.007) . There was no significant difference in other 
thyroid indicators and autoantibodies between the different groups (P>0.05). 
Negative correlation was found between FT3 level and anti-double-stranded DNA 
(dsDNA),level of anti-La antibody (SSB) and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) or 
thyroid peroxidase antibody (TPOAb). Thyroglobulin autoantibody (TgAb) was 
negatively related with C4,and positive correlation between FT3 and C3,FT4 and 
C4,TgAb and IgA.
CONCLUSION: The pathogenesis of HT is associated with the disease activity in 
the patients of SLE with HT.

Copyright© by Editorial Board of Journal of Sichuan University (Medical Science 
Edition).

PMID: 29737056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Horm Res Paediatr. 2018;90(5):332-336. doi: 10.1159/000488467. Epub 2018 May
4.

Myxedema Coma due to Hashimoto Thyroiditis: A Rare but Real Presentation of 
Failure to Thrive in Infancy.

Heksch RA, Henry RK.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT) is uncommon in infancy, and myxedema coma 
(MC) is even less common. While prior reports have documented these entities 
separately, to our knowledge, MC in combination with HT has not been reported 
before in this age group.
METHODS/RESULTS: A 10-month-old female presented with ptosis, lethargy, 
dysphagia, and failure to thrive (FTT). She developed hypotension, bradycardia, 
hypothermia, and apnea requiring intubation. Initial thyroid-stimulating hormone 
was 422 μIU/mL, and free thyroxine was < 0.5 ng/dL, despite the presence of a 
normal thyroid newborn screen (NBS). Of note, sepsis workup was unremarkable. 
With the diagnosis of MC, treatment with intravenous levothyroxine was 
initiated, although after hydrocortisone administration to avert the possibility 
of an adrenal crisis, despite a random cortisol of 16.4 μg/dL. Based on positive 
thyroid antibodies suggesting HT, autoimmune workup later revealed positive 
acetylcholinesterase antibodies consistent with a diagnosis of ocular myasthenia 
gravis.
CONCLUSION: MC may be a cause of altered mental status in infancy and may 
simultaneously be associated with FTT on presentation. With the presence of a 
normal thyroid NBS, autoimmunity should be entertained as the etiology of 
profound hypothyroidism, as positive thyroid antibodies may prompt an 
exploration for coexisting diseases which may explain other presenting features.

© 2018 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000488467
PMID: 29730659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2018 Sep 25;56(10):1778-1782. doi:
10.1515/cclm-2018-0037.

Harmonization in autoimmune thyroid disease diagnostics.

Tozzoli R(1), Bizzaro N(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Pathology, S. Maria degli Angeli Hospital, Pordenone, 
Italy.
(2)Via M.L. King 25, 30027 San Donà di Piave, Venice, Italy.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2018-0037
PMID: 29729141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2018 May 22;115(21):5528-5533. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1721115115. Epub 2018 May 4.

Biochemically altered myelin triggers autoimmune demyelination.

Caprariello AV(1), Rogers JA(1), Morgan ML(1), Hoghooghi V(1), Plemel JR(1), 
Koebel A(2)(3), Tsutsui S(1), Dunn JF(1), Kotra LP(2)(3), Ousman SS(1), Wee Yong 
V(1), Stys PK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University 
of Calgary Cumming School of Medicine, Calgary, AB T2N 4N1, Canada.
(2)Center for Molecular Design and Preformulations, Toronto General Hospital 
Research Institute, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5G 2C4 Canada.
(3)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5G 2C4 Canada.
(4)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Hotchkiss Brain Institute, University 
of Calgary Cumming School of Medicine, Calgary, AB T2N 4N1, Canada; 
pstys@ucalgary.ca.

Although immune attack against central nervous system (CNS) myelin is a central 
feature of multiple sclerosis (MS), its root cause is unresolved. In this 
report, we provide direct evidence that subtle biochemical modifications to 
brain myelin elicit pathological immune responses with radiological and 
histological properties similar to MS lesions. A subtle myelinopathy induced by 
abbreviated cuprizone treatment, coupled with subsequent immune stimulation, 
resulted in lesions of inflammatory demyelination. The degree of myelin injury 
dictated the resulting immune response; biochemical damage that was too limited 
or too extensive failed to trigger overt pathology. An inhibitor of peptidyl 
arginine deiminases (PADs), enzymes that alter myelin structure and correlate 
with MS lesion severity, mitigated pathology even when administered only during 
the myelin-altering phase. Moreover, cultured splenocytes were reactive against 
donor myelin isolates, a response that was substantially muted when splenocytes 
were exposed to myelin from donors treated with PAD inhibitors. By showing that 
a primary biochemical myelinopathy can trigger secondary pathological 
inflammation, "cuprizone autoimmune encephalitis" potentially reconciles 
conflicting theories about MS pathogenesis and provides a strong rationale for 
investigating myelin as a primary target for early, preventative therapy.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1721115115
PMCID: PMC6003499
PMID: 29728463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


184. Laryngoscope. 2018 Sep;128(9):2213-2217. doi: 10.1002/lary.27099. Epub 2018
May  4.

Surgical management of neck pain and headache associated with pediatric 
hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Krakovitz P(1), Cairns C(2), Schweiger BM(3), Burkey B(1).

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Institute, Section of Pediatric Otolaryngology, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio.
(2)Division of Otolaryngology, University of Vermont Medical Center, Burlington, 
Vermont.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Section of Pediatric Endocrinology, Cedars-Sinai 
Medical Center, Los Angeles, California, U.S.A.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Case reports of a painful variant of Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis exist in the literature; however, these cases have only been 
documented in adult patients and there are no standard treatment guidelines. The 
aim of this study was to describe an alternative management for Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis associated with medically intractable head and neck pain in the 
pediatric population.
STUDY DESIGN: Case series with chart review.
METHODS: The study was conducted in the Section of Pediatric Otolaryngology at 
the Cleveland Clinic. We retrospectively analyzed pediatric patients (ages 0-18 
years) with painful thyroiditis and/or headache who underwent total 
thyroidectomy from 2005 to 2014 with a clinical diagnosis of Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis. A thorough chart review was performed, including medical and family 
history, presenting symptoms, laboratory values, medical and surgical treatment 
strategies, operative reports, and surgical pathology.
RESULTS: There were 0.02% of patients (5 of 305) who met the criteria of 
intractable head and or neck pain. All five underwent total thyroidectomy with 
confirmation of Hashimoto's thyroiditis on surgical pathology. Surgical 
treatment resulted in complete cervical pain relief and improved headaches with 
a minimum follow-up of 36 months.
CONCLUSIONS: Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a relatively common form of autoimmune 
thyroiditis in pediatric patients that uncommonly results in intractable neck 
pain or headache. In this case series, thyroidectomy was an effective 
alternative treatment in the pediatric population for medical failures in 
chronic painful Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4. Laryngoscope, 128:2213-2217, 2018.

© 2018 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.27099
PMID: 29726593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Psychopharmacol Bull. 2018 Mar 13;48(3):42-46.

Progressive Non-familial Adult onset Cerebellar Degeneration: An Unusual 
Occurrence with Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Rao RS(1), Sheshadri S(1), Bhattacharjee D(1), Patil N(1), Rao K(1).

Author information:
(1)Drs. Rao, Sheshadri, Rao, (Internal Medicine), Department of Internal 
Medicine, Kasturba Medical College, MAHE, Manipal, India. Drs. Bhattacharjee, 
Patil, (Pharmacology), Department of Pharmacology, Kasturba Medical College, 
MAHE, Manipal, India.

Progressive non-familial adult onset cerebellar degeneration has been rarely 
associated with hypothyroidism and is known to be reversible after therapy. We 
report a case of cerebellar atrophy in a 31 year old female whose detailed 
evaluation had revealed sub-clinical hypothyroidism secondary to autoimmune 
thyroiditis with a very high anti-TPO (anti-thyroid peroxidase) antibody levels. 
MRI (Magnetic Resonanace Imaging) of brain showed diffuse bilateral cerebellar 
atrophy. She was treated with thyroid hormone supplementation and after one year 
of follow up, cerebellar signs had disappeared completely with significant 
reduction in anti-TPO antibody levels. Imaging of the brain post one year of 
follow-up revealed normal cerebellum. Hence, we opine that thyroid dysfunction 
should always be kept in mind while evaluating patients presenting with acute 
onset cerebellar ataxia as it can be easily reversed with thyroid hormone 
replacement therapy.

PMCID: PMC5875367
PMID: 29713105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest None declared.


186. Gynecol Endocrinol. 2018 Nov;34(11):925-927. doi:
10.1080/09513590.2018.1464137.  Epub 2018 Apr 22.

Premature ovarian failure, short stature, and Hashimoto's disease in an 
18-year-old adolescent girl with 46, X, i(X)(q10).

Hu X(1), Zhang Q(2), Gao F(1), Chen LL(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Endocrinology , Union Hospital, Tongji Medical College, 
Huazhong University of Science and Technology , Wuhan , PR China.
(2)b Department of Cardiovascular Surgery , Union Hospital, Tongji Medical 
College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology , Wuhan , PR China.

Premature ovarian failure (POF) is a heterogeneous condition affecting girls and 
women. We detected a previously healthy 18-year-old adolescent girl, presented 
with amenorrhea over six months, as well as circulating levels of estradiol 
lower decreased and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) increased. She was 138 cm 
tall. Results of laboratory tests and/or ultrasound investigations showed 46, X, 
i(X)(q10) karyotype and Hashimoto's disease. This case suggests that pubertal 
onset and progression, as well as karyotype analysis, should be evaluated in 
girls with Hashimoto's disease and short stature.

Publisher: 摘要 卵巢早衰（POF）是发生在女性中的一种异质性疾病。本案例为一名18岁健康少女出现闭经6个月以上, 
并伴随雌激素水平降低和卵泡刺激素（FSH）水平升高。该名少女身高为138cm。生化及影像学检查结果表明, 患者染色体核型异常, 为46, X, 
i(X)(q10), 且患有桥本氏甲状腺炎。本病例提示该病在青春期即可发生发展, 同时, 
对于患有桥本氏甲状腺炎和矮小症的青春期少女应考虑对其进行染色体核型分析。.

DOI: 10.1080/09513590.2018.1464137
PMID: 29683020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. CEN Case Rep. 2018 Nov;7(2):211-216. doi: 10.1007/s13730-018-0329-y. Epub
2018  Apr 18.

A patient presenting with isolated hematuria and renal dysfunction as rare 
manifestation of cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis in the course of autoimmune 
diseases including Sjögren's syndrome.

Yamanaka M(1), Fujigaki Y(2), Kono H(1), Nagura M(1), Arai S(1), Tamura Y(1), 
Ota T(1), Shibata S(1), Kondo F(3), Yamaguchi Y(3), Uchida S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Teikyo University School of Medicine, 2-11-1 
Kaga, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Teikyo University School of Medicine, 2-11-1 
Kaga, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan. fujigaki@med.teikyo-u.ac.jp.
(3)Department of Pathology, Teikyo University Hospital, 2-11-1 Kaga, 
Itabashi-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

Autoimmune diseases are sometimes associated with immune-mediated renal diseases 
and cryoglobulinemia is one of the causes. Cryoglobulinemia and cryoglobulinemic 
glomerulonephritis associated with primary Sjögren's syndrome are most frequent 
condition among non-hepatitis C virus-related condition. Its typical renal 
manifestation shows high amount of proteinuria with microscopic hematuria and 
renal insufficiency. We describe a case of 72-year-old woman with Hashimoto 
disease, autoimmune hepatitis, Sjögren's syndrome, and immune-related 
pancytopenia complicated by cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis. Before kidney 
biopsy, tubulointerstitial nephritis probably due to Sjögren's syndrome was 
suspected because of persistent hematuria without significant proteinuria and 
developing mild renal dysfunction over 6 months. The developing renal 
dysfunction associated with isolated hematuria is uncommon in glomerular 
diseases. Kidney biopsy, however, revealed established membranoproliferative 
glomerulonephritis with subendothelial deposits consisting of tubular structures 
with IgM, IgG, and C3 staining. Corticosteroids plus mycophenolate mofetil 
therapy successfully normalized renal function. Physician should not overlook 
cryoglobulinemic glomerulonephritis, which is potentially poor prognosis, even 
if urinalysis shows only persistent isolated hematuria in patients with 
autoimmune diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s13730-018-0329-y
PMCID: PMC6181880
PMID: 29671215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: The authors have declared 
that no conflict of interest exists. ETHICAL APPROVAL: This article does not 
contain any studies with human participants performed by any of the authors. 
INFORMED CONSENT: Written informed consent was obtained from the patient.


188. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Apr 17;2018:bcr2018224916. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2018-224916.

Bilateral chylothorax following reoperative central neck dissection for 
metastatic papillary thyroid cancer.

Sharma AK(1), Sahli ZT(1), Mathur A(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrine Surgery, Johns Hopkins Hospital and Health System, Baltimore, 
Maryland, USA.

Locoregional recurrence of papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) can occur in up to 30% 
of patients within 10 years after initial treatment. Reoperative surgery can be 
challenging due to scarring, fibrosis and distorted anatomy and may be 
associated with increased complications compared with initial operations. 
Chylothorax is an extremely rare and potentially life-threatening complication 
that can be associated with neck dissections and thyroid surgery. In this 
report, we describe an unusual case of bilateral chylothorax following a left 
central neck dissection for recurrent PTC.

© BMJ Publishing Group Ltd (unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 
2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless otherwise 
expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-224916
PMCID: PMC5905794
PMID: 29666104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


189. Int Immunopharmacol. 2018 Jun;59:217-226. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2018.04.009.
 Epub 2018 Apr 13.

Myeloid related proteins are up-regulated in autoimmune thyroid diseases and 
activate toll-like receptor 4 and pro-inflammatory cytokines in vitro.

Peng S(1), Sun X(2), Wang X(3), Wang H(1), Shan Z(1), Teng W(4), Li C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Institute of Endocrinology, 
Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110001, PR China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital of China 
Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110001, PR China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, The First Affiliated Hospital of China 
Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110001, PR China.
(4)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Institute of Endocrinology, 
Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110001, PR China. 
Electronic address: twp@vip.163.com.
(5)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Institute of Endocrinology, 
Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of China Medical University, Shenyang, Liaoning 110001, PR China. 
Electronic address: chenyan830424@126.com.

PURPOSE: Myeloid-related protein (MRP) family plays an important role in the 
promotion of cell proliferation and the production of inflammatory cytokines. We 
investigated the expression of MRP6, MRP8 and MRP14 in thyroid tissues, serum, 
and peripheral blood monocular cells (PBMCs) in patients with autoimmune thyroid 
diseases (AITD).
METHOD: The expression of MRP6, MRP8, and MRP14 was investigated using 
immunohistochemical staining and quantitative real-time polymerase chain 
reaction in the thyroid glands of 7 patients with Graves' disease (GD), 8 with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), and 7 healthy controls (HC). The serum levels of 
MRP8/MRP14 complex and MRP6 were investigated in 30 patients with GD, 36 with 
HT, and 30 with HC. The mRNA expression of MRP proteins in PBMCs was also 
explored. PBMCs from each group were incubated with MPRs and their effect on 
Toll-like receptor 4(TLR4) expression and their effect on the levels of the 
pro-inflammatory cytokines in supernatant were analyzed upon incubating with 
TLR4 and signaling pathways inhibitors.
RESULTS: Serum levels of MRP8/MRP14 and MRP6 were up-regulated in patients with 
AITD. In addition, mRNA expression of MRP proteins in PBMCs and the thyroid 
gland was markedly elevated in AITD patients. MRP6 and MPR8 promoted the 
secretion of TNF-α and IL-6 in cultured PBMCs, and this elevation was more 
pronounced in AITD patients; we also found that this up-regulation was regulated 
by TLR4/phosphoinositide 3-kinase/nuclear factor-κB signaling pathway.
CONCLUSION: The expression of MRP proteins was elevated in AITD patients. 
Therefore, an MRP-TLR4 dependent signaling may play an important role in the 
pathogenesis of AITD.

Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2018.04.009
PMID: 29656212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Immunol Invest. 2018 Jul;47(5):534-542. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2018.1458861.
Epub  2018 Apr 12.

Functional Polymorphisms of the Type 1 and Type 2 Iodothyronine Deiodinase Genes 
in Autoimmune Thyroid Diseases.

Inoue N(1)(2), Watanabe M(1), Katsumata Y(1), Ishido N(1), Hidaka Y(2), Iwatani 
Y(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Biomedical Informatics, Division of Health Sciences , Osaka 
University Graduate School of Medicine , Osaka , Japan.
(2)b Laboratory for Clinical Investigation , Osaka University Hospital , Osaka , 
Japan.

Graves' disease (GD) and Hashimoto's disease (HD) are major autoimmune thyroid 
diseases (AITDs), and their pathological conditions vary among patients. Type 1 
iodothyronine deiodinase (D1) and type 2 iodothyronine deiodinase (D2) convert 
from thyroxine (T4) to triiodothyronine (T3). However, few findings have been 
described concerning the association between polymorphisms in D1 and D2 genes 
and AITD. Therefore, we genotyped D1 rs11206244, D2 rs225014, and rs12885300 
polymorphisms in 134 GD patients, including 54 patients with intractable GD and 
44 patients with GD in remission and 132 HD patients, including 57 patients with 
severe HD, 45 patients with mild HD, and 84 healthy controls using PCR-RFLP. In 
the D2 rs225014 polymorphism, the TT genotype, which was correlated with higher 
D2 activity, was less frequent in AITD, especially in HD, than in control 
subjects (P = 0.0032 and 0.0002, respectively). Moreover, they were also less 
frequent in HD than in GD (P = 0.0199). The TT genotype and T allele were less 
frequent in severe HD and mild HD than in control subjects (P = 0.0003, 0.0006, 
0.0432, and 0.0427, respectively). In conclusion, the low frequency of the TT 
genotype D2 rs225014 polymorphism was associated with the development of AITD 
and severity of HD.

DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2018.1458861
PMID: 29648895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2018 Apr 9;15(4):704. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph15040704.

Rhabdomyolysis in a Young Girl with Van Wyk-Grumbach Syndrome due to Severe 
Hashimoto Thyroiditis.

Leonardi A(1), Penta L(2), Cofini M(3), Lanciotti L(4), Principi N(5), Esposito 
S(6).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Clinic, Department of Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Università 
degli Studi di Perugia, Perugia 06132, Italy. alberto.leonardi88@gmail.com.
(2)Pediatric Clinic, Department of Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Università 
degli Studi di Perugia, Perugia 06132, Italy. laura.penta@ospedale.perugia.it.
(3)Pediatric Clinic, Department of Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Università 
degli Studi di Perugia, Perugia 06132, Italy. marta.cofini@gmail.com.
(4)Pediatric Clinic, Department of Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Università 
degli Studi di Perugia, Perugia 06132, Italy. lucia.lanciotti@gmail.com.
(5)Università degli Studi di Milano, Milan 20122, Italy. 
nicola.principi@unimi.it.
(6)Pediatric Clinic, Department of Surgical and Biomedical Sciences, Università 
degli Studi di Perugia, Perugia 06132, Italy. susanna.esposito@unimi.it.

Background: Autoimmune hypothyroidism (Hashimoto thyroiditis; HT) is the most 
common postnatal thyroid disease. Clinical manifestations of HT vary according 
to disease severity. Due to the pleiotropic effects of thyroid hormone, less 
common signs and symptoms of HT can occur, leading to a delay in diagnosis. Case 
presentation: A 9-year-old girl of Indian origin was admitted for a one-week 
history of widespread myalgia, fatigue, muscle weakness, difficulty walking, and 
a significant increase in weight (approximately 2 kg) without any changes in 
daily habits. The only relevant medical history was several intermittent vaginal 
bleeding episodes since four years of age. Breast development was consistent 
with Tanner stage 2 without pubic or axillary hair; while height and weight were 
at the 10th percentile and the 38th percentile; respectively. Bone age from a 
left wrist X-ray was delayed 1 year. Pelvic ultrasonography revealed a uterine 
body/neck ratio of >1 (pubertal stage) and multifollicular ovaries. Her external 
genitalia had a childlike appearance. Laboratory examinations showed an 
increased thyroid-stimulating hormone, decreased free thyroxine, and positive 
anti-thyroglobulin antibody titres, as well as elevation of creatine 
phosphokinase, myoglobin, lactate dehydrogenase, serum aspartate 
aminotransferase, hypercholesterolemia, and a basal serum prolactin near the 
upper limit of normal. Follicle stimulating hormone and estradiol were slightly 
and significantly elevated, respectively. Thyroid ultrasound showed an increased 
gland size with irregular echostructures and high vascularization. Levothyroxine 
replacement therapy led to complete normalization of clinical and laboratory 
findings, including rhabdomyolysis indices. No further vaginal bleeding episodes 
were reported. Conclusion: This case report highlights how various can be the 
clinical picture of HT in children, and how rare clinical manifestations can be 
the only signs of disease at presentation leading to delayed diagnosis and 
treatment. In this girl, a never-described association of Van Wyk-Grumbach 
syndrome and acute rhabdomyolysis in a young girl with previously unrecognized 
HT is described. The importance of recognizing the signs and symptoms of rare 
complications of HT in order to begin appropriate therapy is stressed.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph15040704
PMCID: PMC5923746
PMID: 29642533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


192. Ann Neurol. 2018 May;83(5):1037. doi: 10.1002/ana.25229. Epub 2018 Apr 30.

Epidemiology of autoimmune versus infectious encephalitis.

Vogrig A(1), Brigo F(2)(3), Valente M(1)(4), Gigli GL(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Santa Maria della Misericordia University 
Hospital, Udine.
(2)Department of Neurosciences, Biomedicines, and Movement Sciences, University 
of Verona, Verona.
(3)Division of Neurology, Franz Tappeiner Hospital, Merano.
(4)Neurology Unit, Department of Medicine, University of Udine Medical School, 
Udine, Italy.

Comment in
    Ann Neurol. 2018 May;83(5):1038. doi: 10.1002/ana.25230.

Comment on
    Ann Neurol. 2018 Jan;83(1):166-177. doi: 10.1002/ana.25131.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.25229
PMID: 29637605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Ann Neurol. 2018 May;83(5):1038. doi: 10.1002/ana.25230.

Reply to "epidemiology of autoimmune versus infectious encephalitis".

Dubey D(1)(2), Pittock SJ(1)(2), Toledano M(1), Flanagan EP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology.
(2)Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.

Comment on
    Ann Neurol. 2018 Jan;83(1):166-177. doi: 10.1002/ana.25131.
    Ann Neurol. 2018 May;83(5):1037. doi: 10.1002/ana.25229.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.25230
PMID: 29637594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Brain Nerve. 2018 Apr;70(4):371-382. doi: 10.11477/mf.1416201010.

[Cerebellar Ataxia and Autoantibodies].

[Article in Japanese]

Nanri K(1), Yoshikura N, Kimura A, Nakayama S, Otomo T, Shimohata T, Terashi H, 
Sato T, Yamada J.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Medical University Hachioji Medical Center, Department of Neurology, 
Tokyo Medical University Hachioji Medical Center.

The cerebellum is one of the main targets in the central nervous system for 
autoimmunity. Immune-mediated cerebellar ataxias include gluten ataxia, GAD 
antibody-associated cerebellar ataxia, Hashimoto's encephalopathy, and 
paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration. Autoimmune cerebellar ataxia may be of 
either insidious or subacute onset, and vertigo or transient neurological 
symptoms occur in some patients before the onset of the disease, in contrast to 
spinocerebellar degeneration. If autoimmune cerebellar ataxia is suspected, 
early diagnosis and introduction of treatment are very important. For diagnosis, 
testing for gliadin antibody, TG6 antibody, GAD antibody, thyroid antibody, and 
anti-neuronal antibodies, including mGluR1, is useful. Magnetic resonance 
imaging voxel-based morphometry is also useful because it can detect cortical 
cerebellar atrophy of autoimmune cerebellar ataxia, different from 
spinocerebellar ataxia. As for treatment, it is important to remove autoimmune 
triggering factors (e.g.,dietary gluten or neoplasm). When the ataxia symptoms 
are causing hindrances in the daily life, it is worth considering immunotherapy 
including IVIg, steroid therapy and so on.

DOI: 10.11477/mf.1416201010
PMID: 29632285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Brain Nerve. 2018 Apr;70(4):305-314. doi: 10.11477/mf.1416201004.

[Hashimoto's Encephalopathy and Autoantibodies].

[Article in Japanese]

Yoneda M(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Nursing and Social Welfare Science, Fukui Prefectural 
University.

Encephalopathy occasionally occurs in association with thyroid disorders, most 
of which are treatable. These encephalopathies include a neuropsychiatric 
disorder associated with hypothyroidism named myxedema encephalopathy. Moreover, 
Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) has been recognized as a new clinical disease 
based on an autoimmune mechanism associated with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and 
can be successfully treated using steroids. Recently, we discovered that the 
serum autoantibodies against the NH2-terminal of α-enolase (NAE) were a highly 
specific diagnostic biomarker for HE. We analyzed the serum anti-NAE 
autoantibodies and the clinical features in many cases of HE from institutions 
across Japan and other countries. About half the patients with HE had anti-NAE 
antibodies. Patient age was widely distributed with two peaks (around 20-30 
years old and 60-80 years old). Most patients with HE were in euthyroid states 
and all patients had anti-thyroid antibodies. The common neuropsychiatric 
features include disturbance of consciousness, psychosis, cognitive dysfunction, 
involuntary movements, seizures, and ataxia. Electroencephalograph (EEG) 
abnormalities and decreased cerebral blood flow on brain single positron 
emission computed tomography are common findings, whereas abnormalities on brain 
magnetic resonance imaging are rare. Patients with HE present with various 
clinical phenotypes such as an acute encephalopathy form and chronic psychiatric 
form. Other clinical forms include limbic encephalitis, progressive cerebellar 
ataxia, and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD)-mimic forms. The cerebellar ataxia 
form of HE clinically mimics spinocerebellar degeneration (SCD) and is 
characterized by the absence of nystagmus, absent or mild cerebellar atrophy, 
and lazy background activity on EEG. Taken together, clinicians should pay 
attention to the possibility of encephalopathy associated with thyroid 
disorders.

DOI: 10.11477/mf.1416201004
PMID: 29632279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Indian Pediatr. 2018 Mar 15;55(3):260.

Autoimmune Encephalitis Following Herpes Simplex Virus Encephalitis in an 
Infant.

Ramesh V(1), Sankar J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, CHILDS Trust Medical Research Foundation, Kanchi 
Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, Chennai, India. venka80@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, CHILDS Trust Medical Research Foundation, Kanchi 
Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital, Chennai, India.

PMID: 29629704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Clin Imaging. 2018 May-Jun;49:187-192. doi: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2018.03.019.
Epub  2018 Mar 29.

The value of shear wave elastography in diffuse thyroid disease.

Liu J(1), Zhang Y(2), Ji Y(2), Wan Q(2), Dun G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Disease, The First Affiliated Hospital of Medical 
College, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Shaanxi 710061, China; Department of 
Ultrasonography, Baoji Central Hospital, Baoji 721008, China. Electronic 
address: liu198206229@126.com.
(2)Department of Ultrasonography, Baoji Central Hospital, Baoji 721008, China.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study is to discuss the value of ultrasound-based shear 
wave™ elastography (SWE) in diffuse thyroid disease (DTD).
METHOD: Thyroid stiffness in 154 patients with DTD and 30 normal subjects was 
measured by SWE. The serum indicators of all subjects were detected.
RESULTS: The area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUROC) curve for 
DTD by SWE was 0.852. The AUROCs of SWE for differentiating chronic autoimmune 
thyroiditis (CAT) from Graves' disease (GD) and subacute thyroiditis (SAT) were 
0.549 and 0.989, respectively. The AUROCs for distinguishing GD from SAT by SWE 
and the fT3/fT4 ratio were 0.975 and 0.713, respectively.
CONCLUSION: SWE aids in the diagnosis of DTD, and SWE is superior to the fT3/fT4 
ratio for distinguishing GD from SAT. However, SWE was unsuitable for 
differentiating CAT from GD.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinimag.2018.03.019
PMID: 29627743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. J Endocrinol Invest. 2019 Jan;42(1):45-52. doi: 10.1007/s40618-018-0882-4.
Epub  2018 Apr 4.

Decreased staging of differentiated thyroid cancer in patients with chronic 
lymphocytic thyroiditis.

Borowczyk M(1), Janicki A(1), Dworacki G(2), Szczepanek-Parulska E(1), Danieluk 
M(1), Barnett J(1), Antonik M(1), Kałużna M(1), Bromińska B(1), Czepczyński 
R(1), Bączyk M(1), Ziemnicka K(3), Ruchała M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Internal Diseases, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, 49, Przybyszewskiego Street, 60-355, Poznan, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Clinical Immunology, Poznan University of Medical Sciences, 5D, 
Rokietnicka Street, 60-806, Poznan, Poland.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Internal Diseases, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, 49, Przybyszewskiego Street, 60-355, Poznan, 
Poland. kaziem@ump.edu.pl.

PURPOSE: The biological association between chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis 
(CLT) and differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) has not been elucidated yet. The 
aim of the study was to assess whether the presence of CLT exerts any influence 
on clinical or histological presentation of DTC.
METHODS: Nine hundred and seven consecutive patients with DTC treated in the 
years 1998-2016 were divided into two groups according to the presence or 
absence of concomitant CLT. The statistical differences were analysed.
RESULTS: Out of 907 patients included in the study, 331 were diagnosed with DTC 
and CLT (studied group), while 576 patients with DTC but without CLT constituted 
a control group. The distribution of papillary and follicular thyroid cancer did 
not differ. In CLT group, the prevalence of pT1 was greater than for pT2-pT4 DTC 
(P = 0.0003; OR = 1.69, 95% CI 1.27-2.24) compared to controls (68.3 vs. 56.1%, 
respectively). The presence of multifocal lesions was similar. The thyroid 
capsule infiltration without extrathyroidal invasion (P < 0.0001; OR = 0.21, 95% 
CI 0.14-0.31) was more frequent in the studied group, unlike extracapsular 
invasion, which was significantly more often present in patients with DTC but 
without CLT (P = 0.004; OR = 1.66; 95% CI 1.17-2.34) as well as nodal 
involvement (P = 0.048; OR = 0.65, 95% CI 0.42-0.99).
CONCLUSIONS: The collected data indicate a protective role of CLT in preventing 
the spread of the DTC. The presence of CLT might limit tumour growth to the 
primary site.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-018-0882-4
PMCID: PMC6304183
PMID: 29619749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST: All authors report no 
potential conflict of interest. ETHICAL APPROVAL: The study was approved by the 
Bioethical Committee of Poznan University of Medical Sciences. All procedures 
performed in study involving human participants were in accordance with the 
ethical standards of the institutional and national research committee and with 
the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments. INFORMED CONSENT: 
Informed consent was obtained from all individual participants included in the 
study for patients’ study participation and publication of identifying 
information and images.


199. Acta Cytol. 2018;62(2):93-98. doi: 10.1159/000487502. Epub 2018 Mar 29.

Identification of Cytological Features Distinguishing Mucosa-Associated Lymphoid 
Tissue Lymphoma from Reactive Lymphoid Proliferation Using Thyroid Liquid-Based 
Cytology.

Suzuki A(1), Hirokawa M(2), Ito A(1), Takada N(1), Higuchi M(1), Hayashi T(2), 
Kuma S(2), Miyauchi A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Kuma Hospital, Kobe, Japan.
(2)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Cytology, Kuma Hospital, Kobe, Japan.
(3)Department of Surgery, Kuma Hospital, Kobe, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: To identify cytological differences between mucosa-associated 
lymphoid tissue lymphoma (MALT-L) and nonneoplastic lymphocytes using thyroid 
liquid-based cytology (LBC).
STUDY DESIGN: We observed LBC and conventional specimens from 35 MALT-L cases, 3 
diffuse large B-cell cell lymphoma (DLBCL) cases, and 44 prominent nonneoplastic 
lymphocytic infiltration cases.
RESULTS: In MALT-L cases, the incidence of lymphoglandular bodies in the LBC 
specimens was lower than that in the conventional specimens (p < 0.001). 
Moreover, the nuclear sizes in LBC specimens were larger than those in 
conventional specimens. In 62.9% of the MALT-L and all DLBCL specimens, large 
nuclei were present in > 10% of the lymphoid cells in LBC specimens. Two cases 
with prominent nonneoplastic lymphocytic infiltration also exhibited these 
findings. In LBC specimens, swollen naked nuclei with less punctate chromatin 
patterns and thin nuclear margins were observed in 92.1% of lymphoma and 20.5% 
of prominent nonneoplastic lymphocytic infiltration. Elongated nuclei were 
significantly more apparent in thyroid lymphoma than in prominent nonneoplastic 
lymphocytic infiltration (p < 0.001), with a significantly higher incidence in 
LBC specimens than in conventional specimens (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Lymphoglandular bodies are not reliable markers for lymphoma 
diagnosis using LBC specimens. Large, swollen naked, and elongated nuclei are 
useful in distinguishing thyroid lymphoma from nonneoplastic lymphocytes in LBC 
specimens.

© 2018 The Author(s) Published by S. Karger AG, Basell.

DOI: 10.1159/000487502
PMCID: PMC5969056
PMID: 29597203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Br J Radiol. 2018 Jul;91(1087):20180014. doi: 10.1259/bjr.20180014. Epub
2018  Apr 9.

Thyroid nodules and cancer in children and adolescents affected by Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Won JH(1), Lee JY(1), Hong HS(1), Jeong SH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Soonchunhyang University Bucheon Hospital , Bucheon 
, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the rates of thyroid nodules and cancer in pediatric 
cases of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) in Korea.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 89 pediatric and adolescent patients (age, 
3-18.0 years) with HT who underwent thyroid ultrasonography (US) at our 
institution from February 2006 to July 2016. The diagnosis of HT was based on 
the presence of thyroid autoantibodies. The presence of any thyroid nodules with 
US and cytopathologic features was analyzed. The malignancy rate was also 
determined.
RESULTS: Thyroid nodules were in 20 of the 89 patients (22.4%). Eight of these 
20 patients (40%) had colloid cysts, two (10%) had nodular hyperplasia, one (5%) 
had follicular adenoma, and two (10%) had lymphocytic thyroiditis. Seven of the 
89 patients (7.9%) were confirmed to have a malignancy, all of which were 
papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC); of those, five patients had diffuse 
sclerosing variant PTC, and two had conventional PTC on pathology.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of thyroid nodules in children and adolescents with 
HT was 22.4%. The malignancy rate of children with HT was 7.9%. The malignancy 
rate among thyroid nodules was 35%, which is higher than the 26% rate generally 
reported for children with nodules. Therefore, using thyroid US to survey known 
or suspected thyroid nodules might be helpful in children and adolescents with 
HT and may provide further useful diagnostic information. Advances in knowledge: 
Thyroid US could help to assess HT patients who have known or suspected thyroid 
nodules.

DOI: 10.1259/bjr.20180014
PMCID: PMC6221765
PMID: 29595320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: The authors of this 
manuscript declare no relationships with any companies, whose products or 
services may be related to the subject matter of the article.


201. Lipids Health Dis. 2018 Mar 27;17(1):59. doi: 10.1186/s12944-018-0704-x.

Powdered black cumin seeds strongly improves serum lipids, atherogenic index of 
plasma and modulates anthropometric features in patients with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Farhangi MA(1)(2), Dehghan P(3), Tajmiri S(4).

Author information:
(1)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. abbasalizad_m@yahoo.com.
(2)Nutrition Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran. abbasalizad_m@yahoo.com.
(3)Drug Applied Research Center, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.
(4)Student Research Committee, Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, Tabriz, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis is associated with serious alterations in 
serum lipids and glucose homeostasis. The aims of the current study were to 
evaluate the effect of powdered Nigella sativa on serum lipids, glucose 
homeostasis and anthropometric variables in patients with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.
METHODS: Forty patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, aged between 22 and 
50 years old, participated in the trial and were randomly allocated into two 
groups of intervention and control receiving powdered Nigella sativa or placebo 
daily for 8 weeks. Serum lipids, glucose homeostasis, and anthropometric 
variables were evaluated at baseline and after intervention.
RESULTS: Treatment with Nigella sativa significantly reduced body weight and 
body mass index (BMI). Serum concentrations of low density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL) and triglyceride (TG) also decreased in Nigella sativa-treated 
group after 8 weeks; while serum high density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL) 
significantly increased after treatment with Nigella sativa (P < 0.05). None of 
these changes had been observed in placebo treated group. Serum Nesfatin-1 
concentrations was in inverse relationship with serum triglyceride (TG) 
(r = - 0.31, P = 0.04).
CONCLUSIONS: Giving attention to the potent beneficial effects of powdered black 
cumin seeds in improving serum lipid profile and anthropometric features in 
patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis, this medicinal plant could be considered 
as a beneficial herbal supplement alongside with the disease- specific 
medications including Levothyroxine in management of Hashimoto's thyroiditis- 
related metabolic abnormalities.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Iranian registry of clinical trials (registration number 
IRCT2014090819082N2 - Registered 2014-09-29).

DOI: 10.1186/s12944-018-0704-x
PMCID: PMC5870944
PMID: 29587770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: All 
participants signed a written informed consent approved by the Institutional 
Review Board of Tabriz University of Medical Sciences. The study design and 
protocol was approved by the ethical committee of Tabriz University of Medical 
Sciences (Project number: 93173). The study has also been registered in Iranian 
registry of clinical trials (registration number IRCT2014090819082N2- Registered 
2014-09-29). CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that there is no competing of interest. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


202. Br J Surg. 2018 May;105(6):677-685. doi: 10.1002/bjs.10770. Epub 2018 Mar
26.

Risk profile analysis and complications after surgery for autoimmune thyroid 
disease.

Thomusch O(1), Sekulla C(2), Billmann F(3), Seifert G(1), Dralle H(2), Lorenz 
K(2); Prospective Evaluation Study of Thyroid Surgery (PETS 2) Study Group.

Collaborators: Vorländer C, Dralle H, Freitag M, Jähne J, Steinmüller T, Trupka 
A, Steinert F, Schabram J, Heinzmann B, Lang H, Cotte J, Hoffmann TF, Dette K, 
Gellert K, Henne-Bruns D, Boese-Landgraf J, Simon Evangelisches D, Kube R, 
Lorenz EPM, Pross M, Hartel M, Thomschke D, Pistorius G, Hopt UT, Franke C, Rose 
U, Steuer W, Schwenk W, Ebert KH, Kelm C, Witzigmann H, Rampf W, Ridwelski K, 
Knoefel WT, Bechstein WO, Grothe D, Anthuber M, Mirow L, Probst W, Thews A, 
Fleck U, Kärgel W, Schimmelpenning H, Fielitz J, Rose U, Schöffauer T, Asperger 
W, Zaage J, Dorn HU, Weitz J, Neubauer M, Klar E, Lautermann J, Senkal M, 
Lippert H, Lück R, Ziesche M, Kröll KP, Skrobisz J, Lorenc Z, Dudesek B, Smutny 
S, Brauckhoff M, Längle F, Wenzl E.

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Visceral Surgery, Albert Ludwig University of 
Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(2)Department of General, Vascular and Visceral Surgery, Martin Luther 
University of Halle-Wittenberg, Halle an der Saale, Germany.
(3)Department of General, Visceral and Transplantation Surgery, University 
Hospital of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Surgical approaches to autoimmune thyroid disease are currently 
hampered by concerns over postoperative complications. Risk profiles and 
incidences of postoperative complications have not been investigated 
systematically, and studies with sufficient power to show valid data have not 
been performed.
METHODS: A prospective multicentre European study was conducted between July 
2010 and December 2012. Questionnaires were used to collect data prospectively 
on patients who had surgery for autoimmune thyroid disease and the findings were 
compared with those of patients undergoing surgery for multinodular goitre. 
Logistic regression analysis was used to evaluate risk factors for thyroid 
surgery-specific complications, transient and permanent recurrent laryngeal 
nerve (RLN) palsy and hypoparathyroidism.
RESULTS: Data were available for 22 011 patients, of whom 18 955 were eligible 
for analysis (2488 who had surgery for autoimmune thyroid disease and 16 467 for 
multinodular goitre). Surgery for multinodular goitre and that for autoimmune 
thyroid disease did not differ significantly with regard to general 
complications. With regard to thyroid surgery-specific complications, the rate 
of temporary and permanent vocal cord palsy ranged from 2·7 to 6·7 per cent 
(P = 0·623) and from 0·0 to 1·4 per cent (P = 0·600) respectively, whereas the 
range for temporary and permanent hypoparathyroidism was 12·9 to 20·0 per cent 
(P < 0·001) and 0·0 to 7·0 per cent (P < 0·001) respectively. In logistic 
regression analysis of transient and permanent vocal cord palsy, autoimmune 
thyroid disease was not an independent risk factor. Autoimmune thyroid disease, 
extent of thyroid resection, number of identified parathyroid glands and no 
autotransplantation were identified as independent risk factors for both 
transient and permanent hypoparathyroidism.
CONCLUSION: Surgery for autoimmune thyroid disease is safe in comparison with 
surgery for multinodular goitre in terms of general complications and RLN palsy. 
To avoid the increased risk of postoperative hypoparathyroidism, special 
attention needs to be paid to the parathyroid glands.

© 2018 BJS Society Ltd Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.10770
PMID: 29579336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Ann Neurol. 2018 Apr;83(4):863-869. doi: 10.1002/ana.25216.

Genetic predisposition in anti-LGI1 and anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis.

Mueller SH(1), Färber A(2), Prüss H(3), Melzer N(4), Golombeck KS(4), Kümpfel 
T(5), Thaler F(5), Elisak M(6), Lewerenz J(7), Kaufmann M(8), Sühs KW(9), 
Ringelstein M(10), Kellinghaus C(11), Bien CG(12), Kraft A(13), Zettl UK(14), 
Ehrlich S(15), Handreka R(16), Rostásy K(17), Then Bergh F(18), Faiss JH(19), 
Lieb W(20), Franke A(21), Kuhlenbäumer G(1), Wandinger KP(2)(22), Leypoldt 
F(1)(2); German Network for Research on Autoimmune Encephalitis (GENERATE).

Collaborators: Krämer M, Lyss B, Schreiber S, Faiss J, Wallenfelsova E, Othman 
J, Sinnecker T, Riedlinger A, Fonseca P, Kern P, Bogarin Y, Hoffmann A, Schwabe 
J, Seidel G, Herwig A, Handreka R, Rostasy K, Stolze H, Körber R, Wiese L, 
Schulze-Amberger J, Heide W, Geis T, Blaes F, Köhler W, Ehrlich S, Dogan M, Bien 
C, Kramme C, Grofß M, Thomsen J, Pulkowski U, Hoepner R, Schindler K, Lippert J, 
Marziniak M, Ewering C, Reimann G, Juranek A, Kanitz RD, Obrocki J, Pfefferkorn 
T, Schimrigk S, Urbanek C, Schön F, Schabet M, Melville J, Finke A, Henningsen 
H, Hansen HC, Küpper P, Berning S, Kellinghaus C, Nagel M, Hofstadt U, 
Trendelenburg G, Heider S, Linsa A, Thaler F, Muth C, Borggräfe I, Blaschek A, 
Laurent S, Kümpfel T, Havla J, Menge T, Bieniek R, Kraft A, Hoffmann F, 
Philipsen A, Gorsler A, Pomschlegel S, Tesch M, Lempert T, Winter B, Schluh G, 
Gass A, Hagenah U, Hausler MG, König, Schiffner C, Tauber S, Ayzenbeig I, Ingo 
K, Hellwig K, Krogias C, Heneka M, Widmann G, Witt JA, Niehusmann P, Wagner J, 
Schoch S, Becker A, Helmstaedter C, Elger C, Kehrer S, Langenfurth A, Spruth E, 
Priller J, Paul F, Harms L, Finke C, Prüss H, Wöpking S, Schneider A, Seitz R, 
Ringelstein M, Goebels N, Aktas O, Huttner H, Gemer S, Staykov D, van Elst LT, 
Endres D, Stich O, Rauer S, Baumgartner A, Neubauer B, Hofmann R, Schirotzek I, 
Döppner T, von Podewils F, Süße M, Dressel A, Kaufmann M, Fleischer S, Heesen C, 
Stellmann JP, Friese M, Ufer F, Sühs KW, Trebst C, Stangel M, Schönenberger S, 
Wildemann B, Jarius S, Bösel J, Roepke L, Brämer D, Strubl J, Kunze A, Geis C, 
Günther A, Grote S, Maker M, Dohmen C, Stoppe M, Bergh FT, Ettrich B, Schilling 
R, Koertvelyessy P, Bittner D, Spreer A, Methner A, Pledl HW, Hoyer C, Anlonso 
A, Szabo K, Held V, Tackenberg B, Meuth S, Philipp K, Golombeck S, 
Posevitz-Fejfar A, Wuerdemann T, Dik A, Strippel C, Möning C, Wiendl H, Melzer 
N, Weissert R, Fuchs K, Retzlaff N, Schroeder H, Zettl U, Fousse M, 
Ragoschke-Schumm A, van Baalen A, Stumer K, Berg D, Peuser A, Nissen G, Schmütz 
I, Leypoldt F, Bartsch T, Falk KC, Hummel K, Moser A, Wandinger KP, Becker F, 
Krumbholz M, Bischof F, Ihle J, Dürr M, Tumani H, Lewerenz J, Doppler K, Sommer 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Germany.
(2)Neuroimmunology section, Institute of Clinical Chemistry, University Hospital 
Schleswig-Holstein Kiel/Lübeck, Germany.
(3)Department of Neurology, Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Germany 
and German Center for Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE) Berlin, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Münster, Germany.
(5)Department of Clinical Neuroimmunology, University of Munich, Germany.
(6)Department of Neurology, Charles University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(7)Department of Neurology, Ulm University, Germany.
(8)Institute of Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis (INIMS), University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany.
(9)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Hannover, Germany.
(10)Department of Neurology, Medical Faculty, Heinrich Heine University 
Düsseldorf, Germany.
(11)Department of Neurology, Klinikum Osnabrück, Germany.
(12)Epilepsy Centre Bethel, Krankenhaus Mara, Bielefeld, Germany.
(13)Department of Neurology, Martha-Maria Hospital Halle, Germany.
(14)Department of Neurology, Neuroimmunological Section, University Hospital 
Rostock, Germany.
(15)Department of Neurology, Klinikum St. Georg, Wermsdorf, Germany.
(16)Department of Neurology, Carl-Thiem-Klinikum Cottbus, Germany.
(17)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Vestische Kinder- und Jugendklinik 
Datteln, University Witten/Herdecke, Germany.
(18)Department of Neurology, University of Leipzig, Germany.
(19)Department of Neurology, Asklepios Fachklinikum Teupitz, Germany.
(20)Institute of Epidemiology, Department of Neurology, Neuroimmunological 
Section, Christian-Albrechts-University Kiel, Germany.
(21)Institute of Clinical Molecular Biology, Christian-Albrechts-University of 
Kiel, Germany.
(22)Department of Neurology, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.

We performed a genome-wide association study in 1,194 controls and 150 patients 
with anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (anti-NMDAR, n = 96) or 
anti-leucine-rich glioma-inactivated1 (anti-LGI1, n = 54) autoimmune 
encephalitis. Anti-LGI1 encephalitis was highly associated with 27 
single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the HLA-II region (leading SNP 
rs2858870 p = 1.22 × 10-17 , OR = 13.66 [7.50-24.87]). Potential associations, 
below genome-wide significance, were found with rs72961463 close to the 
doublecortin-like kinase 2 gene (DCLK2) and rs62110161 in a cluster of 
zinc-finger genes. HLA allele imputation identified association of anti-LGI1 
encephalitis with HLA-II haplotypes encompassing DRB1*07:01, DQA1*02:01 and 
DQB1*02:02 (p < 2.2 × 10-16 ) and anti-NMDAR encephalitis with HLA-I allele 
B*07:02 (p = 0.039). No shared genetic risk factors between encephalitides were 
identified. Ann Neurol 2018;83:863-869.

© 2018 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.25216
PMID: 29572931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Ital J Pediatr. 2018 Mar 21;44(1):39. doi: 10.1186/s13052-018-0478-9.

Epidemiological and clinical aspects of autoimmune thyroid diseases in children 
with Down's syndrome.

Aversa T(1), Crisafulli G(1), Zirilli G(1), De Luca F(2), Gallizzi R(1), 
Valenzise M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Via Consolare Valeria, 98124, Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Via Consolare Valeria, 98124, Messina, Italy. filippo.deluca@unime.it.

Aim of this commentary is to report the main peculiarities that have been found 
to characterize the phenotypic expression of autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs) 
in children with Down's syndrome (DS). According to recent reports, DS children 
are, per se, more exposed to the risk of both Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and 
Graves' disease (GD), irrespective of other concomitant risk factors, such as 
female gender and family antecedents for AITDs. In the context of 
extra-thyroidal autoimmune disorders, the ones that preferentially aggregate 
with AITDs in DS children are alopecia areata and vitiligo. Another peculiar 
aspect, in DS children, is that HT presents with a more severe biochemical 
picture, which furtherly deteriorates over time. By contrast, GD does not 
demonstrate a more severe clinical and biochemical picture with respect to that 
generally observed in patients without DS. Finally, DS children might be at 
higher risk of progressing from HT toward GD over time.

DOI: 10.1186/s13052-018-0478-9
PMCID: PMC5863361
PMID: 29562915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


205. Ultrasound Med Biol. 2018 Jun;44(6):1164-1169. doi: 
10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.02.005. Epub 2018 Mar 16.

Role of Virtual Touch Tissue Quantification in Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Lin ZM(1), Wang Y(1), Liu CM(1), Yan CX(1), Huang PT(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasound, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China.
(2)Department of Ultrasound, Second Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University 
School of Medicine, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China. Electronic address: 
huangpintong@zju.edu.cn.

We investigated the role of the virtual touch tissue quantification (VTQ) 
technique in diagnosing Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and in distinguishing 
various HT-related thyroid dysfunctions. Two hundred HT patients and 100 healthy 
volunteers (the control group) were enrolled. The diagnostic performance of VTQ 
in predicting HT was calculated as the area under the receiver operating 
characteristic curve (AZ). The HT patients were further classified into three 
subgroups on the basis of serologic tests of thyroid function: hyperthyroidism, 
euthyroidism and hypothyroidism. Comparisons of shear wave velocity (SWV) 
between three subgroups were evaluated by analysis of variance. The mean SWV of 
the control group was significantly lower than that of the HT group 
(1.93 ± 0.33 m/s vs. 2.32 ± 0.49 m/s, p <0.001). Az was 0.734 with a cut-off 
value of 1.86 m/s for performance of SWV in distinguishing between HT and a 
healthy thyroid; the sensitivity and specificity were 82.5% and 50.0%, 
respectively. Mean SWV values in the three HT subgroups (hyperthyroidism 
[2.07 ± 0.37 cm/s] vs. euthyroidism [2.20 ± 0.40 cm/s] vs. hypothyroidism 
[2.49 ± 0.46 cm/s]) were significantly different (p <0.05). Our results suggest 
that VTQ is a promising technique for assessing HT and HT-related thyroid 
dysfunction.

Copyright © 2018 World Federation for Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ultrasmedbio.2018.02.005
PMID: 29551221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Acta Biochim Pol. 2018;65(1):17-24. doi: 10.18388/abp.2017_2321. Epub 2018
Mar  15.

The mutual cooperation of blood platelets and lymphocytes in the development of 
autoimmune thyroid diseases.

Tomczyńska M(1), Saluk-Bijak J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology and Environmental 
Protection, University of Lodz, Łódź, Poland.

Autoimmune thyroid diseases include several distinct clinical entities, mainly 
Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. An incompetent immune response 
directed against the body's own tissues, and the production of antibodies 
against specific cell antigens accompanied by chronic inflammation, all occur in 
autoimmune thyroid diseases. The autoimmune process is induced by genetic and 
environmental factors that are difficult to identify and generates the 
development of concomitant diseases in other systems. Leukocyte activation and 
overproduction of inflammatory mediators, as well as improper levels of thyroid 
hormones, play an essential role in the chronic course of these diseases. The 
development of autoimmune thyroid diseases results from the impairment of the 
regulatory and suppressor functions of T-cells or NK cells and activation of B 
cells, or from the changes in the number of those cells. Many reports have shown 
the significant role of platelet-leukocyte interaction in inflammation. 
Autoantibodies react with target antigens in different kinds of cells, including 
blood platelets, and autoimmune processes can modulate the mutual cooperation of 
blood platelets and lymphocytes. The activity of blood platelets and lymphocytes 
is reciprocally regulated. It has been suggested that blood platelets can 
influence lymphocyte function by direct contact with receptors, and indirectly 
via soluble mediators. The interactions of platelet-immune cells (neutrophils, 
monocytes, lymphocyte and dendritic cells) can have a potent enhancing effect on 
immune cells functions.

DOI: 10.18388/abp.2017_2321
PMID: 29549672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Mar 14;2018:bcr2018224212. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2018-224212.

Asymmetric proptosis as a presenting symptom of Hashimoto's thyroiditis with 
hypothyroidism.

George T(1), Dasgupta R(2), Vardhan H(1), Thomas N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Christian Medical College and Hospital Vellore, 
Vellore, India.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Diabetes and Metabolism, Christian Medical 
College, Vellore, India.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2018-224212
PMCID: PMC5878285
PMID: 29540353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


208. Zhongguo Yi Xue Ke Xue Yuan Xue Bao. 2018 Feb 28;40(1):59-66. doi: 
10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.2018.01.009.

Diagnostic Value of Elastography for Thyroid Nodules in Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

[Article in English]

Zhang XY(1), Zhang B(1), Jiang YX(1), Yang X(1), Zhao RN(1), Lai XJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Ultrasound,PUMC Hospital,CAMS and PUMC,Beijing 
100730,China.

Objective To evaluate the diagnostic performance of elastography in the 
diagnosis of thyroid nodules in the context of Hashimoto's thyroiditis(HT). 
Methods The study evaluated 43 thyroid nodules by conventional ultrasound (CU) 
and elastography in 38 patients co-existed with HT who were referred for 
operation. The patients underwent CU and elastography before operation. The 
sensitivity,specificity,positive and negative predictive values,and accuracy for 
CU,elastography,and combination of these two techniques were assessed by using 
histopathological results as the gold standard. Results Among these 43 thyroid 
nodules,pathology confirmed 29 (67.4%) malignant nodules and 14 (32.6%) benign 
ones. There were statistically significant differences between malignant and 
benign groups in features such as solid shape (96.6% vs. 
64.0%;OR:15.6,95%CI:1.600-151.262,P=0.004),irregularity (90.0% vs. 
42.9%;OR:11.6,95%CI:2.341-57.032,P=0.001),taller than wide shape (72.0% vs. 
21.4%;OR:9.6,95% CI:2.117-43.753,P=0.002),microcalcification (69% vs. 
28.6%;OR:5.6,95% CI:1.368-22.556,P=0.012) and irregular blood flow (90.0% vs. 
28.6%;OR:17.3,95%CI:3.186-94.290,P=0.000). The diagnostic performance of 
elastography and CU was as follows:sensitivity (86.2 % vs.96.6%),specificity 
(71.4% vs.42.9%),positive predictive value (86.2% vs.77.8%),negative predictive 
value (71.4% vs.85.7%),and accuracy (81.4% vs.79.0%). The combination of these 
two techniques had a sensitivity of 93.1%,a specificity of 71.4%,a positive 
predictive value of 87.1%,a negative predictive value of 83.3%,and an accuracy 
of 86.0%. Conclusions Elastography has a higher specificity in the diagnosis of 
thyroid nodules in HT,while its sensitivity is slightly lower than that of CU. 
Combination of these two techniques can increase the specificity and accuracy.

Publisher: 目的 评估超声弹性成像对桥本甲状腺炎(HT)背景下甲状腺结节的诊断价值。方法 
回顾性分析38例HT患者共43个甲状腺结节的超声特征及超声弹性评分(ES),评估ES与常规超声(CU)的诊断价值。结果 
43个结节中,恶性结节29个(67.4%),良性结节14个(32.6%)。在HT背景下,恶性结节与良性结节在实性(96.6%比64.0%;OR:15.6,95%CI:1.6000~151.262,P=0.004)、形态不规则(90.0%比42.9%;OR:11.6,95%CI:2.341~57.032,P=0.001)、纵横比≥1(72.0%比21.4%;OR:9.6,95%CI:2.117~43.753,P=0.002)、微小钙化(69.0%比28.6%;OR:5.6,95%CI:1.368~22.556,P=0.012)和不规则血流(90.0%比28.6%;OR:17.3,95%CI:3.186~94.290,P=0.000)等方面差异均有统计学意义。ES与CU对HT背景下甲状腺结节诊断价值分别为:敏感性(86.2%比96.6%),特异性(71.4%比42.9%),阳性预测值(86.2%比77.8%),阴性预测值(71.4%比85.7%)和准确性(81.4比79.0%)。两者联合诊断的敏感性为93.1%,特异性为71.4%,阳性预测值为87.1%,阴性预测值为83.3%,准确性为86.0%。结论 
超声弹性成像对HT背景下甲状腺结节性质的诊断特异性高于CU,敏感性低于CU,两者联合应用可提高诊断特异性和准确性。.

DOI: 10.3881/j.issn.1000-503X.2018.01.009
PMID: 29532782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Indian J Pediatr. 2018 Jul;85(7):573. doi: 10.1007/s12098-018-2652-x. Epub
2018  Mar 13.

Apathy - Forme Fruste of Autoimmune Encephalitis.

Kasinathan A(1), Adam RK(2), Sankhyan N(3), Singhi P(4).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Neurology and Neurodevelopment Unit, Department of Pediatrics, 
Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, 160012, 
India.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Super Speciality Pediatric Hospital and 
Postgraduate Teaching Institute, Noida, 201310, India.
(3)Pediatric Neurology and Neurodevelopment Unit, Department of Pediatrics, 
Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, 160012, 
India. drnsankhyan@yahoo.co.in.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Medanta, The Medicity, Gurgaon, India.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-018-2652-x
PMID: 29532325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Front Immunol. 2018 Feb 20;9:311. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00311. eCollection
 2018.

The Footprints of Poly-Autoimmunity: Evidence for Common Biological Factors 
Involved in Multiple Sclerosis and Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Perga S(1)(2)(3), Martire S(1)(2), Montarolo F(1)(2)(3), Giordani I(4), Spadaro 
M(1)(2), Bono G(1)(2), Corvisieri S(4), Messuti I(4), Panzica G(1)(3), Orlandi 
F(4), Bertolotto A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Institute Cavalieri Ottolenghi (NICO), Orbassano, Turin, Italy.
(2)Regional Reference Centre for Multiple Sclerosis (CReSM), University Hospital 
S. Luigi Gonzaga, Orbassano, Turin, Italy.
(3)Department of Neuroscience Rita Levi Montalcini, University of Turin, Turin, 
Italy.
(4)SCDU Endocrinology and Metabolism, Humanitas Gradenigo Hospital, Department 
of Oncology, University of Turin, Turin, Italy.

Autoimmune diseases are a diverse group of chronic disorders and affect a 
multitude of organs and systems. However, the existence of common 
pathophysiological mechanisms is hypothesized and reports of shared risk are 
emerging as well. In this regard, patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) have 
been shown to have an increased susceptibility to develop chronic autoimmune 
thyroid diseases, in particular Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), suggesting an 
autoimmune predisposition. However, studies comparing such different pathologies 
of autoimmune origin are still missing till date. In the present study, we 
sought to investigate mechanisms which may lead to the frequent coexistence of 
MS and HT by analyzing several factors related to the pathogenesis of MS and HT 
in patients affected by one or both diseases, as well as in healthy donors. In 
particular, we analyzed peripheral blood mononuclear cell gene-expression levels 
of common candidate genes such as TNFAIP3, NR4A family, BACH2, FOXP3, and PDCD5, 
in addition to the regulatory T cell (Treg) percentage and the 25-hydroxy 
vitamin D serum levels. Our findings support the plausibility of the existence 
of common deregulated mechanisms shared by MS and HT, such as BACH2/PDCD5-FOXP3 
pathways and Tregs. Although the biological implications of these data need to 
be further investigated, we have highlighted the relevance of studies comparing 
different autoimmune pathologies for the understanding of the core concepts of 
autoimmunity.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00311
PMCID: PMC5829620
PMID: 29527211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Autoimmunity. 2018 May;51(3):118-125. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1448078.
Epub  2018 Mar 11.

Methylation levels of the TNFA gene are different between Graves' and 
Hashimoto's diseases and influenced by the TNFA polymorphism.

Morita E(1), Watanabe M(1), Inoue N(1)(2), Hashimoto H(1), Haga E(1), Hidaka 
Y(2), Iwatani Y(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Biomedical Informatics, Division of Health Sciences , Osaka 
University Graduate School of Medicine , Suita , Osaka , Japan.
(2)b Laboratory for Clinical Investigation , Osaka University Hospital , Suita , 
Osaka , Japan.

Graves' disease (GD) and Hashimoto's disease (HD) are different pathological 
types of autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs). However, the epigenetic 
differences between these diseases have not been elucidated. DNA methylation is 
one of the primary epigenetic modifications that reflect environmental 
influences on gene expression. In this study, we evaluated the methylation 
status of six CpG sites in the TNFA promoter using pyrosequencing and analyzed 
the data in combination with functional polymorphisms (-1031 T/C and +123 C/T) 
in the TNFA gene to clarify the role of gene methylation on the prognosis of 
AITDs. We examined the methylation pattern in 52 patients with GD, 60 patients 
with HD, and 29 healthy controls by pyrosequencing. Additionally, we also 
genotyped the polymorphisms from 163 patients with GD, 152 patients with HD, and 
94 healthy controls using the restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) 
method. Each proportion of subjects with low methylation of the -72 CpG site 
(≤11.9%), low methylation of the -49 CpG site (≤15.5%), and low methylation of 
the -38 CpG site (≤8.9%) was significantly increased in the groups with high 
concentration of TNF-α (≥0.134 pg/mL). The methylation level of the -72 CpG site 
was significantly higher in GD cases (10.7 ± 4.9%) than in healthy controls 
(6.8 ± 3.9%). The methylation level of the -49 and -38 CpG sites were 
significantly higher in patients with GD in remission (20.5 ± 9.5%, 17.6 ± 8.0%, 
respectively) than in healthy controls (13.0 ± 7.6%, 7.9 ± 7.3%, respectively). 
The frequency of the TNFA - 1031C carrier (CT + CC) is correlated with higher 
TNF-α production and was significantly higher in GD (35.0%) and HD (39.5%) cases 
than in controls (19.1%). In the subjects with the TNFA - 1031C carrier 
(CT + CC), the methylation level of the -72 CpG site was significantly higher in 
GD (11.5 ± 5.7%) than in HD (6.0 ± 3.4%). However, there was no difference 
between GD and HD in patients with the TT genotype. Cumulatively, our data 
indicate the methylation levels of CpG sites in the TNFA gene may be related to 
the difference between GD and HD in AITDs and may be influenced by the TNFA gene 
polymorphism.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1448078
PMID: 29526119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2018 May;168:72-76. doi:
10.1016/j.clineuro.2018.02.043.  Epub 2018 Mar 5.

Atypical presentation of probable Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease associated with 
anti-Zic4 antibody: Literature review of neuronal antibodies in 
Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.

Salazar R(1).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Jackson Hospital & Clinic, Montgomery, AL, USA; Alabama 
College of Osteopathic Medicine, Dothan, AL, USA. Electronic address: 
Richard.Salazar@jackson.org.

INTRODUCTION: Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease is a prion disease 
characterized by rapidly progressive dementia, ataxia and myoclonus. Atypical 
phenotype masquerading as stroke, movement disorders or autoimmune encephalitis 
have been described. Here, I report a probable case of sCJD with an atypical 
presentation associated with anti-Zic4 antibody and review the literature of 
neuronal antibodies in CJD.
CASE REPORT: A 70 year-old gentleman is admitted with a 2-month history of 
recurrent stroke-like symptoms associated with behavioral disturbances, gait 
ataxia and rapidly progressive dementia. His initial examination demonstrated 
akinetic mutism, diffuse rigidity, dysautononia, and Cheyne-Stokes respiration. 
Over the following weeks his condition progressed to profound coma. A 
comprehensive infectious, metabolic, inflammatory and autoimmune work-up yielded 
negative results. Empiric immunosuppressive therapy ensued. He expired three 
months after symptoms onset. Autopsy was not performed. After his demise, prion 
tests came back abnormal for elevated 14-3-3 protein, total tau and positive 
RTQuIC. Later on, anti-Zic4 antibodies were found in serum.
CONCLUSION: This case underscores the importance of a high index of suspicion 
for CJD even in case of atypical features or the concurrence of neuronal 
antibodies. Further larger prospective studies on the prevalence of these 
neuronal antibodies in CJD and the contribution of these autoantibodies to 
disease pathophysiology are necessary.

Copyright © 2018 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2018.02.043
PMID: 29525731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Neurologia (Engl Ed). 2020 Apr;35(3):217-219. doi:
10.1016/j.nrl.2018.01.005.  Epub 2018 Mar 7.

Isolated pseudotumoural demyelination: A focal, monophasic autoimmune 
encephalitis?

[Article in English, Spanish]

Moreno-Estébanez A(1), Losada Domingo JM(2), González-Pinto González T(2), 
Rodríguez-Antigüedad Zarrantz A(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital Universitario de Cruces, Barakaldo, Vizcaya, 
España. Electronic address: ana.morenoestebanez@osakidetza.eus.
(2)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital Universitario de Cruces, Barakaldo, Vizcaya, 
España.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nrl.2018.01.005
PMID: 29525395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Nervenarzt. 2018 May;89(5):530-538. doi: 10.1007/s00115-018-0499-z.

[Autoimmune encephalitis with psychotic symptoms : Diagnostics, warning signs 
and practical approach].

[Article in German]

Steiner J(1)(2), Prüß H(3)(4), Köhler S(5), Hasan A(6), Falkai P(6).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Otto-von-Guericke-Universität 
Magdeburg, Leipziger Str. 44, 39120, Magdeburg, Deutschland. 
johann.steiner@med.ovgu.de.
(2)Center for Behavioral Brain Sciences, Magdeburg, Deutschland. 
johann.steiner@med.ovgu.de.
(3)Experimentelle Neurologie und Klinik für Neurologie, Campus Mitte, Charité 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Deutschland.
(4)Deutsches Zentrum für Neurodegenerative Erkrankungen (DZNE) Berlin, Berlin, 
Deutschland.
(5)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Campus Mitte, Charité 
Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Berlin, Deutschland.
(6)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Ludwig Maximilians-Universität 
München, München, Deutschland.

Despite intensive research, a precise cause of schizophrenic and schizoaffective 
disorders has not yet been identified. Therefore, psychiatric diagnoses are 
still made based on clinical ICD-10/DSM‑5 criteria and not on any objective 
markers; however, various causes or pathophysiological processes may ultimately 
lead to similar symptoms. An important task for the future of psychiatry is to 
identify disease subtypes with a distinct pathophysiology to develop more 
specific and causally acting therapies. A new diagnostic entity has become 
established in clinical neurology and psychiatry in recent years: autoimmune 
encephalitis with psychotic symptoms caused by specific antineuronal antibodies 
has been identified as a rare but potentially treatable cause of psychotic 
disorders; however, these inflammatory brain diseases are not reliably detected 
by routine psychiatric diagnostics. Therefore, this qualitative review is 
intended to provide structured support for clinical practice, which, guided by 
clinical warning signals, enables a rapid and reliable diagnosis as well as the 
initiation of immunotherapy. In the case of psychiatric symptoms, the additional 
onset of focal neurological signs, disturbances of consciousness and 
orientation, autonomic instability or epileptic seizures and 
electroencephalograph (EEG) abnormalities should always be followed by a more 
specific cerebrospinal fluid analysis with determination of antineuronal 
autoantibodies. Although the scientific evidence indicates that only a small 
subgroup of patients is affected, the swift and correct diagnosis is of high 
therapeutic and prognostic relevance for the affected individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-018-0499-z
PMID: 29523913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2018 Jun;88(6):943-949. doi: 10.1111/cen.13596. Epub
2018  Apr 6.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis with elevated serum IgG4 concentrations is not 
equivalent to IgG4 Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Yu Y(1), Yu N(1), Lu G(1), Li T(2), Zhang Y(1), Zhang J(3), Gao Y(1), Gao Y(1), 
Guo X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Department of Pathology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, China.
(3)Department of Geriatrics, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) with serum IgG4 concentrations greater 
than 135 mg/dL can be diagnosed as elevated serum IgG4 HT. HT can also be 
classified into IgG4 HT and non-IgG4 HT based on an immunohistochemistry 
analysis of IgG4. The aim of our study was to determine the relationship between 
elevated serum IgG4 HT and IgG4 HT.
METHOD: Both thyroid tissues and serum samples stored before pathological 
examination from 93 patients with HT were collected. The serum levels of IgG, 
IgG4, TgAb IgG, TgAb IgG4, TPOAb IgG and TPOAb IgG4 were measured by ELISAs. The 
expression levels of IgG4, IgG and TGF-β1 in thyroid tissues were detected by 
immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: Patients with HT were divided into two groups: elevated serum IgG4 HT 
(n = 12) and nonelevated serum IgG4 HT (n = 81). Hypothyroidism was found in 5 
of 12 cases (41.7%) in the elevated serum IgG4 HT group and 10 of 81 cases 
(12.3%) in the nonelevated serum IgG4 HT group (P = .023). Serologically, there 
were no significant differences in the levels of TgAb IgG, TPOAb IgG, TgAb IgG4 
and TPOAb IgG4 between the two groups, and the expression of TGF-β1 in thyroid 
tissues was not significantly different between the groups. Most importantly, 
the frequency of patients who satisfied the criteria for IgG4 HT diagnosis was 
comparable (25% vs 20.9%, P = .756).
CONCLUSIONS: The measurement of serum IgG4 allows the identification of patients 
with HT closely associated with hypothyroidism. However, our study demonstrated 
that elevated serum IgG4 HT is not equivalent to IgG4 HT.

© 2018 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.13596
PMID: 29520804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Endocr J. 2018 May 28;65(5):509-519. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ17-0401. Epub
2018  Mar 7.

Prevalence of diverse complications and its association with karyotypes in 
Japanese adult women with Turner syndrome-a questionnaire survey by the 
Foundation for Growth Science.

Hanew K(1), Tanaka T(1), Horikawa R(1), Hasegawa T(1), Yokoya S(1).

Author information:
(1)Growth Hormone Therapy Research Committee, Foundation for Growth Science, 
Tokyo, Japan.

The reported prevalence of complications in Turner Syndrome (TS) was highly 
variable because of the rarity and the limited numbers analyzed. Again, possible 
presence of other complications that are not described as specific for TS, is 
also speculated. To resolve these issues, a questionnaire survey was conducted 
in hGH treated 492 patients with adult TS (17-42 years). The possible 
association with these complications and karyotypes were also analyzed. The 
complications and their prevalence were as follows: chronic thyroiditis (25.2%), 
inflammatory bowel disease (1.8%), congenital cardiovascular anomaly (11.8%), 
urinary tract malformation (11.8%), low bone mineral density (BMD) (42.9%), 
scoliosis (8.4%), hearing loss (6.2%), epilepsy (2.8%) and schizophrenia (0.9%). 
The majority of prevalence of these diseases in TS was higher than in the 
general population. In distribution, the most frequent karyotype was 45,X 
monosomy (28.9%), followed by 45,X/46,X,Xi (16.9%), 46,X,Xi (9.1%), and 
45,X/46,XX (6.3%), while other mosaic 45,X was noted in 29.9%. Regarding the 
karyotype, cardiovascular anomaly was more frequent in the 45,X group and less 
in the 46,X,Xi group. Urinary tract malformation and epilepsy were frequently 
associated with the chromosome 45,X. The prevalence of low BMD was noticed more 
in the chromosome 46,X,Xi and 45,X/46,X,Xi, and less in other mosaic 45,X. In 
conclusion, the more exact prevalence of diverse complications was clarified and 
it exceeded the prevalence of the majority of complications in general 
population. As novel findings, it was observed that the prevalence of epilepsy 
was significantly high, and epilepsy and low BMD were frequently associated with 
the specific karyotypes.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ17-0401
PMID: 29515055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2018;45(5):1787-1796. doi: 10.1159/000487870. Epub
2018  Feb 28.

Polymorphisms of IKZF3 Gene and Autoimmune Thyroid Diseases: Associated with 
Graves' Disease but Not with Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Li L(1), Ding X(2), Wang X(1), Yao Q(1), Shao X(1), An X(3), Yan N(1), Jiang 
Y(1), Wang W(1), Shi L(1), Qin Q(1), Song R(1), Zhang JA(1), Sun P(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, Shanghai, 
China.
(2)Department of Nephrology and Endocrinology, Weinan Central Hospital of 
Shaanxi Province, Weinan, China.
(3)Department of Endocrinology, The Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing University of 
Chinese Medicine, Nanjing, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Jinshan Hospital of Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The IKZF3 gene encodes a zinc-finger protein that plays an 
important role in the proliferation and differentiation of B lymphocytes. 
Autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs), mainly include Graves' disease (GD) and 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT), are probably caused by the aberrant proliferation 
of B cells. The objective of this study was to explore the association between 
IKZF3 polymorphisms and AITDs.
METHODS: We examined 915 AITD patients (604 GD and 311 HT) and 814 healthy 
controls. IKZF3 variants (rs2941522, rs907091, rs1453559, rs12150079 and 
rs2872507) were tested by PCR-ligase detection reaction.
RESULTS: It was manifested that that the minor alleles of the five loci 
increased susceptibility to GD (p<0.05 for rs2941522, and p<0.01 for rs907091, 
rs1453559, rs12150079 and rs2872507) but in HT patients, these loci showed no 
significant difference compared with controls. Similarly, the genotype 
distributions of GD patients manifested obvious differences in all these loci 
compared with the control group, whereas no statistical differences were 
observed between HT patients and controls. Furthermore, bioinformatics tools 
were used to analyze rs1453559, rs12150079 and rs907091. These variants were 
believed to be the transcription regulator.
CONCLUSION: It is the first time we reported the association between the IKZF3 
polymorphisms and GD, indicating that IKZF3 gene tends to bean important risk 
factor for the development of GD.

© 2018 The Author(s). Published by S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000487870
PMID: 29510406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Jan;97(1):e9546. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000009546.

Case report of a pituitary thyrotropin-secreting macroadenoma with Hashimoto 
thyroiditis and infertility.

Li J(1), Li J, Jiang S, Yu R, Yu Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism Department of Neurosurgery, West 
China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, Sichuan Province, China Department 
of Pathophysiology and Molecular Pharmacology, Joslin Diabetes Center, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

RATIONALE: Thyrotropin-secreting adenoma (TSHoma) is rare, diagnosis and 
treatment are often delayed if the condition coexists with Hashimoto 
thyroiditis. The enlarged pituitary adenoma may eventually induce 
panhypopituitarism, infertility, or the compression of optic nerves and optic 
chiasma.
PATIENT CONCERNS: This patient was a 36-year-old man who had been referred to 
the pituitary disease multidisciplinary team (MDT) of the West China Hospital, 
due to infertility.
DIAGNOSES: Examinations revealed pituitary thyrotropin-secreting macroadenoma.
INTERVENTIONS: We conducted trans-sphenoidal surgery. Human chorionic 
gonadotropin (HCG) and human menopausal gonadotropin (HMG) were used for 
reproductive reconstruction after surgery.
OUTCOMES: This patient successfully fathered a child.
LESSONS: To date, the multidisciplinary team treatment of TSHoma was rare, 
TSHomas are often misdiagnosed as macroadenomas, because the clinical features 
are varied and it often takes a long time to be diagnosed. So the purpose of 
this case report is to attract attention to the manifestation of increased 
thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) concentration and discuss MDT treatment for 
TSH-secreting adenoma.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000009546
PMCID: PMC5943133
PMID: 29505532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests: The authors declare no 
obvious and potential conflicts of interest related to the publication of this 
article.


219. Medicine (Baltimore). 2018 Jan;97(3):e9574. doi:
10.1097/MD.0000000000009574.

Autoimmune encephalitis positive for both anti-γ-aminobutyric acid B receptor 
and anticollapsin response-mediator protein 5 antibodies: A case report.

Xia J(1), Yin X, Zhu M, Cao J, Song X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience Center, First Hospital of Jilin 
University, Changchun, Jilin, China.

RATIONALE: Autoimmune encephalitis (AE) is a heterogeneous group of recently 
identified disorders. Despite severe and even prolonged neurologic deficits, 
dramatic improvements may occur with proper immunotherapy in some patients with 
AE. Antineuronal antibodies have been discovered in patients' serum and 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). However, AE with multiple antineuronal antibodies is 
rare. To date, there are no published reports of AE with both 
anti-γ-aminobutyric acid B receptor (GABABR) and anticollapsin response-mediator 
protein 5 (CV2) antibodies.
PATIENT CONCERNS: We describe a 46-year-old man who presented with seizures, 
working memory deficits, and visual hallucinations. We detected anti-CV2 and 
anti-GABABR antibodies in his serum and CSF. Brain magnetic resonance imaging 
(MRI) revealed patchy abnormal signals in his left temporal lobe and 
hippocampus. The patient's symptoms improved after receiving intravenous 
immunoglobulin injections and glucocorticoids, but his condition relapsed within 
4 months, and he was readmitted to our hospital. Repeated MRI scans revealed new 
lesions in his right temporal lobe and hippocampus.
DIAGNOSIS: The AE diagnosis was established from the results of the preliminary 
physical examination, the laboratory tests, and the imaging findings.
INTERVENTIONS: The patient received intravenous immunoglobulins and 
glucocorticoids.
OUTCOMES: We followed the patient for 9 months from the date of the patient's 
second hospital discharge. He experienced no seizures during this period, but 
his short-term memory deficits and visual hallucinations were not completely 
alleviated.
LESSONS: Coexisting anti-CV2 and anti-GABABR antibodies may have synergistic 
effects and worsen the clinical syndrome. AE with multiple antineuronal 
antibodies may be relapse-prone. Further studies investigating the relationship 
between anti-CV2 and anti-GABABR antibodies are warranted.

Copyright © 2017 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000009574
PMCID: PMC5779748
PMID: 29504979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


220. J Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2018 Apr 25;31(5):577-580. doi: 
10.1515/jpem-2017-0425.

Hyperthyroidism in an infant of a mother with autoimmune hypothyroidism with 
positive TSH receptor antibodies.

Joshi K(1)(2), Zacharin M(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Murdoch Children's Research Institute, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, The Royal Children's Hospital, Parkville, 
Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Neonatal hyperthyroidism is rare, seen in infants of mothers with 
Graves' disease (GD), with transplacental transfer of thyroid-stimulating 
hormone receptor (TSHR) antibodies (TRAbs). We describe a neonate with severe 
hyperthyroidism due to TRAbs, born to a mother with autoimmune hypothyroidism.
CASE PRESENTATION: A baby boy born preterm at 35 weeks had irritability, 
tachycardia and proptosis after birth. The mother had autoimmune hypothyroidism, 
from age 10, with thyroxine replacement and normal thyroid function throughout 
her pregnancy. She had never been thyrotoxic. There was a family history of 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and GD. The baby's thyroid function on day 3 
demonstrated gross thyrotoxicosis, TSH<0.01 mIU/L (normal range [NR]<10 mIU/L), 
free thyroxine (FT4)>77 pmol/L (20-35), free triiodothyronine (FT3) 15.4 pmol/L 
(4.2-8.3) and TRAb 18.4 IU/L (<1.8). The mother's TRAb was 24.7 IU/L. 
Thyrotoxicosis required propranolol and carbimazole (CBZ). Thyroid function 
normalized within 10 days. The baby was weaned off medication by 7 weeks. He 
remains euthyroid.
CONCLUSIONS: We postulate that this mother had co-existing destructive 
thyroiditis and thyroid-stimulating antibodies (TSAbs) and TSHR blocking 
antibodies (TBAb), rendering her unable to raise a thyrotoxic response to the 
TSAbs but with predominant TSAb transmission to her infant. Maternal history of 
any thyroid disorder may increase the risk of transmission to an infant, 
requiring a careful clinical assessment of the neonate, with important 
implications for future pregnancies.

DOI: 10.1515/jpem-2017-0425
PMID: 29494342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2018 May 24;56(6):896-900. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2017-1108.

The natural history of autoimmune Addison's disease with a non-classical 
presentation: a case report and review of literature.

Manso J(1), Pezzani R(1), Scarpa R(1), Gallo N(2), Betterle C(1).

Author information:
(1)Endocrinology Unit, Department of Medicine (DIMED), University of Padova, 
Padova, Italy.
(2)Laboratory Medicine, Department of Medicine (DIMED), University of Padova, 
Padova, Italy.

Autoimmune Addison's disease (AAD) is the most frequent cause of adrenocortical 
insufficiency. The natural history of AAD usually comprises five consecutive 
stages with the first stage characterized by the increase of plasma renin 
consistent with the impairment of pars glomerulosa, which is usually the first 
affected layer of the adrenal cortex. We describe a 19-year-old female with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) who underwent an autoantibody screening due to 
having the personal and family history of other autoimmune diseases in the 
absence of relevant clinical manifestations. She was positive for adrenal cortex 
autoantibodies (ACA) and steroid 21-hydroxylase autoantibodies (21-OH Ab) at 
high titers. She had increased basal levels of ACTH with normal basal cortisol 
not responding to ACTH stimulation, reduced levels of 
dehydroepiandrosterone-sulfate but normal levels of orthostatic renin and 
aldosterone. This scenario was consistent with a subclinical AAD presenting with 
first impairments in pars fasciculata and reticularis and conserved pars 
glomerulosa function. Only subsequently, progressive deficiency in pars 
glomerulosa function has become evident. Review of the literature showed that 
there was only one case, reported to date, with a similar atypical natural 
history of AAD. The strategies for screening for ACA/21-OH Ab in patients with 
HT are discussed.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2017-1108
PMID: 29478039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Neurosci. 2018 Mar 28;38(13):3218-3229. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3377-17.2018.  Epub 2018 Feb 23.

Positive Allosteric Modulation as a Potential Therapeutic Strategy in Anti-NMDA 
Receptor Encephalitis.

Warikoo N(1), Brunwasser SJ(1)(2), Benz A(1), Shu HJ(1), Paul SM(1)(3)(4)(5), 
Lewis M(4), Doherty J(4), Quirk M(4), Piccio L(6), Zorumski CF(1)(7)(3), Day 
GS(6)(8), Mennerick S(9)(7)(3).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Psychiatry.
(2)Medical Scientist Training Program, Washington University School of Medicine, 
St. Louis, Missouri 63110.
(3)Taylor Family Institute for Innovative Psychiatric Research.
(4)Sage Therapeutics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02142.
(5)Voyager Therapeutics, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02139, and.
(6)Neurology.
(7)Neuroscience.
(8)Knight Alzheimer Disease Research Center, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri 63108.
(9)Departments of Psychiatry, menneris@wustl.edu.

N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) are ionotropic glutamate receptors 
important for synaptic plasticity, memory, and neuropsychiatric health. NMDAR 
hypofunction contributes to multiple disorders, including anti-NMDAR 
encephalitis (NMDARE), an autoimmune disease of the CNS associated with GluN1 
antibody-mediated NMDAR internalization. Here we characterize the 
functional/pharmacological consequences of exposure to CSF from female human 
NMDARE patients on NMDAR function, and we characterize the effects of 
intervention with recently described positive allosteric modulators (PAMs) of 
NMDARs. Incubation (48 h) of rat hippocampal neurons of both sexes in confirmed 
NMDARE patient CSF, but not control CSF, attenuated NMDA-induced current. 
Residual NMDAR function was characterized by lack of change in channel open 
probability, indiscriminate loss of synaptic and extrasynaptic NMDARs, and 
indiscriminate loss of GluN2B-containing and GluN2B-lacking NMDARs. NMDARs 
tagged with N-terminal pHluorin fluorescence demonstrated loss of surface 
receptors. Thus, function of residual NMDARs following CSF exposure was 
indistinguishable from baseline, and deficits appear wholly accounted for by 
receptor loss. Coapplication of CSF and PAMs of NMDARs (SGE-301 or SGE-550, 
oxysterol-mimetic) for 24 h restored NMDAR function following 24 h incubation in 
patient CSF. Curiously, restoration of NMDAR function was observed despite 
washout of PAMs before electrophysiological recordings. Subsequent experiments 
suggested that residual allosteric potentiation of NMDAR function explained the 
persistent rescue. Further studies of the pathogenesis of NMDARE and 
intervention with PAMs may inform new treatments for NMDARE and other disorders 
associated with NMDAR hypofunction.SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT 
Anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor encephalitis (NMDARE) is increasingly 
recognized as an important cause of sudden-onset psychosis and other 
neuropsychiatric symptoms. Current treatment leaves unmet medical need. Here we 
demonstrate cellular evidence that newly identified positive allosteric 
modulators of NMDAR function may be a viable therapeutic strategy.

Copyright © 2018 the authors 0270-6474/18/383218-12$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3377-17.2018
PMCID: PMC6596063
PMID: 29476014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: S.M.P., M.L., J.D., M.Q., 
and C.F.Z. have financial interests in Sage Therapeutics. The remaining authors 
declare no competing financial interests.


223. Genet Test Mol Biomarkers. 2018 Apr;22(4):224-236. doi:
10.1089/gtmb.2017.0243.  Epub 2018 Feb 20.

Associations Between Three CTLA-4 Polymorphisms and Hashimoto's Thyroiditis 
Risk: An Updated Meta-Analysis with Trial Sequential Analysis.

Hu Y(1), Xu K(1), Jiang L(1), Zhang L(1), Shi H(1), Cui D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University , Nanjing, China .

AIMS: In this article, we conducted an updated meta-analysis with trial 
sequential analysis (TSA) to refine the associations between three common single 
nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the CTLA-4 gene (+49A/G, CT60, and -318C/T) 
and Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT).
METHODS: Statistical association analyses were performed using four genetic 
models, including the allelic, codominant, dominant, and recessive models with 
the Revman 5.3, Stata 14.0, and TSA 0.9 software. For quality evaluation, the 
Newcastle-Ottawa Scale was used.
RESULTS: Our meta-analysis included 29 independent studies with low risk of bias 
that involved 3614 cases and 8839 controls. The pooled results indicated a 
significant association between the +49A/G polymorphism and an increased risk of 
HT in all four genetic models. Furthermore, the TSA demonstrated that the 
evidence of this association was robust and credible. Subgroup analysis revealed 
a significantly higher risk of HT in Asians compared with Caucasians associated 
with the +49A/G polymorphism. Surprisingly, in contrast to the results with 
adults, we did not find any significant association when analyzing the pediatric 
subgroup. For the CT60 polymorphism, a significant association with risk of HT 
was detected overall, and subgroup analysis revealed that this association was 
significant in the Asian subgroup, but not in the Caucasian subgroup. No 
statistically significant associations were detected in any of the investigated 
genetic models for the -318C/T polymorphism. However, the results of the TSA 
suggested that the sample sizes used for the CTLA-4 CT60 and -318C/T SNPs were 
insufficient.
CONCLUSION: Our meta-analysis showed significant associations between the risk 
of HT and both the +49A/G and CT60 polymorphisms, but not the -318C/T 
polymorphism. In addition, the TSA results indicated that CTLA-4 +49A/G should 
be considered as a biomarker for HT, whereas both the CT60 and -318C/T SNPs 
warrant confirmation by further studies.

DOI: 10.1089/gtmb.2017.0243
PMID: 29461867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Minerva Endocrinol. 2018 Dec;43(4):398-405. doi:
10.23736/S0391-1977.18.02725-6.  Epub 2018 Feb 13.

Association of heterogeneity of the thyroid gland with matrix 
metalloproteinase-3 in rheumatoid arthritis patients with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Nagasaki T(1), Nagata Y(2), Wakita Y(2), Yamada S(2), Goto H(2), Imanishi Y(2), 
Onoda N(3), Emoto M(2), Inaba M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Metabolism, Endocrinology and Molecular Medicine, Osaka City 
University, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan - 
toshi-n@jg7.so-net.ne.jp.
(2)Department of Metabolism, Endocrinology and Molecular Medicine, Osaka City 
University, Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(3)Department of Surgical Oncology, Osaka City University, Graduate School of 
Medicine, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is highly prevalent in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA). The aim is to determine their relation, focusing on 
matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP-3), a marker predicting joint destruction and RA 
activity.
METHODS: Fifty-three consecutive RA patients were prospectively separated into 
two groups based on the presence or absence of HT; those with and without TPO-Ab 
or Tg-Ab (34.0% and 66.0%, respectively). To estimate the extent of inflammation 
and destruction of the thyroid gland, Heterogeneity Index (HI) was determined 
ultrasonographically.
RESULTS: While the male/female ratio, TSH and HI were significantly higher in 
those with HT than in those without (5/13 vs. 7/28, P=0.047, mean±SE; 7.25±0.69 
vs.2.52±0.30 mIU/L, P<0.001; 3.8±0.2 vs.3.2±0.2%, P=0.042, respectively), no 
differences existed in MMP-3. In those with HT, MMP-3 correlated negatively with 
FT3 (rho=-0.545, P=0.048) and positively with TPO-Ab and HI (rho=0.735, P=0.02; 
rho=0.769, P=0.01, respectively). Among them, HI was a significant factor 
associated positively with MMP-3 (r=0.883, F=31.91).
CONCLUSIONS: The present study demonstrated significant increases of HI and an 
association between HI and MMP-3 in RA patients with HT. These findings suggest 
that the inflammation and destruction of the thyroid gland might be closely 
related to the current activity and terminal joint destruction of RA.

DOI: 10.23736/S0391-1977.18.02725-6
PMID: 29442475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Feb 12;2018:bcr2017223229. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2017-223229.

Rhabdomyolysis: a rare complication of Hashimoto's thyroiditis precipitated by 
statin therapy.

Peringat J(1), Manappallil RG(2), Karadan U(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Baby Memorial Hospital, Calicut, Kerala, India.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Baby Memorial Hospital, Calicut, Kerala, 
India.
(3)Department of Neurology, Baby Memorial Hospital, Calicut, Kerala, India.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) or chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is the most 
common form of primary hypothyroidism. Muscular manifestations like weakness, 
pain, stiffness and elevated muscle enzymes have been noticed in hypothyroidism. 
Statins are also known to cause myositis and rhabdomyolysis. This is a case of a 
middle-aged man, on statin therapy, who presented with severe muscle aches and 
pain and was found to have rhabdomyolysis. Further evaluation revealed an 
underlying HT as the culprit for his condition. He was managed with intravenous 
fluids and levothyroxine along with cessation of statins, following which he 
improved.

© BMJ Publishing Group Ltd (unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 
2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless otherwise 
expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2017-223229
PMCID: PMC5836711
PMID: 29440138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


226. Tijdschr Psychiatr. 2018;60(2):120-123.

[Hashimoto encephalopathy as explanation of psychotic symptoms in an 
adolescent].

[Article in Dutch]

Geerts H, Emmery P, Spaas K, Klockaerts C, Danckaerts M.

Hashimoto encephalopathy (he) is a rare disorder with a great diversity in 
clinical presentation of neurological and/or psychiatric symptoms. We describe a 
case of Hashimoto thyroiditis with hypothyroidism and Hashimoto encephalopathy 
in a fifteen-year-old boy who was referred to a child and adolescent 
psychiatrist due to a suspicion of a psychotic episode. Patient recovered after 
treatment with levothyroxine and corticosteroids.

PMID: 29436703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Front Immunol. 2018 Jan 29;9:96. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00096. eCollection 
2018.

Increased Interleukin-23 in Hashimoto's Thyroiditis Disease Induces Autophagy 
Suppression and Reactive Oxygen Species Accumulation.

Zheng T(1)(2), Xu C(1), Mao C(1)(2), Mou X(1), Wu F(1), Wang X(1), Bu L(1), Zhou 
Y(2), Luo X(1), Lu Q(1), Liu H(1), Yuan G(1), Wang S(3), Chen D(2), Xiao 
Y(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu 
University, Zhenjiang, China.
(2)Institute of Oncology, The Affiliated Hospital of Jiangsu University, 
Zhenjiang, China.
(3)Department of Laboratory Immunology, Jiangsu University School of Medicine, 
Zhenjiang, China.
(4)Key Laboratory of Stem Cell Biology, Institute of Health Sciences, Shanghai 
Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences and Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) represents the most common organ-specific 
autoimmune disease. Inflammatory factors and reactive oxygen species (ROS) play 
detrimental roles during the pathogenesis of HT. In this study, we found that 
thyroid follicular cells (TFCs) from HT patients expressed an elevated level of 
interleukin-23 (IL-23), which contributed to autophagy suppression and ROS 
accumulation. Additionally, IL-23-induced autophagy suppression and ROS 
accumulation in human TFCs was attributed to AKT/mTOR/NF-κB signaling pathway 
activation. Inhibition of either IL-23 by a specific neutralization antibody, or 
mTOR by rapamycin, or NF-κB by IKK-16, significantly reversed the autophagy 
suppression and ROS accumulation. These results demonstrate a key role for IL-23 
in HT pathogenesis and provide a potential therapeutic strategy against IL-23 or 
its signaling pathway in HT.

DOI: 10.3389/fimmu.2018.00096
PMCID: PMC5796905
PMID: 29434604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Altern Ther Health Med. 2018 May;24(3):56-61.

Managing Hashimoto's Thyroiditis Through Personalized Care: A Case Report.

Dolan K, Finley H, Gasta M, Houseman S.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) affects more than 14 million individuals in the 
United States, most of them women. Thyroid replacement therapy has long been the 
foundation of medical treatment for HT; however, recent research supports a role 
for nutritional approaches. This case report describes the management of a 
34-y-old female with HT who declined thyroid replacement therapy and was 
successfully managed for a period of 5 mo. The patient was advised to follow a 
phytonutrient rich diet (eg, berries); avoid sensitive foods (gluten and soy); 
and consume quality fats, fermented foods, and filtered water. Nutritional 
supplementation of vitamins (B complex, D3), α-lipoic acid, coenzyme Q10, 
magnesium, omega-3 oil (DHA/EPA), and probiotics were used in conjunction with 
an herbal tincture. (Altern Ther Health Med.

PMID: 29428930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Ital J Pediatr. 2018 Feb 7;44(1):22. doi: 10.1186/s13052-018-0461-5.

Thyroid function test evolution in children with Hashimoto's thyroiditis is 
closely conditioned by the biochemical picture at diagnosis.

Crisafulli G(1), Gallizzi R(1), Aversa T(1), Salzano G(1), Valenzise M(1), 
Wasniewska M(1), De Luca F(2), Zirilli G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Via Consolare Valeria, 98124, Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Via Consolare Valeria, 98124, Messina, Italy. filippo.deluca@unime.it.

ᅟ: Aim of this commentary is to summarize the salient literature views on the 
relationships between presentation and evolution patterns of thyroid function in 
children with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). According to the most recent 
reports, children with HT and subclinical hypothyroidism (SH) are more prone to 
the risk of developing severe thyroid dysfunctions over time, if compared to 
those presenting with euthyroidism. In contrast, children presenting with HT and 
either overt or subclinical hyperthyroidism are incline to exhibit a definitive 
resolution of the hyperthyroid phase within some months, although there is a 
wide variability between the different individuals. The natural history of frank 
hypothyroidism in the children with HT has never been investigated so far, since 
in these cases an immediate onset of replacement treatment is mandatory.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) a deterioration of thyroid status over time may be observed 
especially in the children presenting with SH, but also in those presenting with 
euthyroidism; 2) a definitive resolution of the hyperthyroid phase is generally 
observed in those presenting with either overt or subclinical hyperthyroidism.

DOI: 10.1186/s13052-018-0461-5
PMCID: PMC5804084
PMID: 29415743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


230. J Neurol Sci. 2018 Feb 15;385:96-98. doi: 10.1016/j.jns.2017.12.021. Epub
2017  Dec 18.

CLIPPERS with longitudinally extensive transverse myelitis: Role of T versus B 
cells.

Olmes DG(1), Metz I(2), Lee DH(3), Rosenwald A(4), Doerfler A(5), Brück W(6), 
Linker RA(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander 
University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany. Electronic address: 
David.Olmes@uk-erlangen.de.
(2)Department of Neuropathology, University Hospital Göttingen, Georg-August 
University Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address: imetz@gwdg.de.
(3)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander 
University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany. Electronic address: 
De-Hyung.Lee@uk-erlangen.d.
(4)Institute of Pathology, University of Würzburg, Comprehensive Cancer Center 
Mainfranken, Würzburg, Germany. Electronic address: rosenwald@uni-wuerzburg.de.
(5)Department of Neuroradiology, University Hospital Erlangen, 
Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany. Electronic address: 
Arnd.Doerfler@uk-erlangen.de.
(6)Department of Neuropathology, University Hospital Göttingen, Georg-August 
University Göttingen, Germany. Electronic address: 
wbrueck@med.uni-goettingen.de.
(7)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander 
University Erlangen-Nuremberg, Germany. Electronic address: 
ralf.linker@uk-erlangen.de.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jns.2017.12.021
PMID: 29406923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Curr Opin Crit Care. 2018 Apr;24(2):80-90. doi:
10.1097/MCC.0000000000000483.

Clinical presentation of autoimmune and viral encephalitides.

Dubey D(1)(2), Toledano M(1), McKeon A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology.
(2)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: We describe clinical and diagnostic features of various 
autoimmune and viral encephalitis subtypes.
RECENT FINDINGS: Population-based studies have demonstrated both autoimmune and 
viral causes have similar prevalence and incident rates. Repertoire of 
autoimmune biomarkers has considerably increased with discovery of many novel 
neural antibodies including glial fibrillary acidic proteinα-immunoglobulin G. 
Similarly, with use of next generation sequencing and DNA libraries, many viral 
causes are being detected which would have been categorized as encephalitis of 
unknown cause a decade ago.
SUMMARY: Autoimmune and viral encephalitides can resemble one another and 
sometimes autoimmune encephalitis may be triggered by viral infections. Early 
diagnosis and treatment is the key to both causes, which emphasizes the 
importance of clinical diagnosis before laboratory confirmation.

DOI: 10.1097/MCC.0000000000000483
PMID: 29401173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2018 May;22(3):558-562. doi:
10.1016/j.ejpn.2018.01.002.  Epub 2018 Jan 9.

Severe GABA(A) receptor encephalitis without seizures: A paediatric case 
successfully treated with early immunomodulation.

Nikolaus M(1), Knierim E(2), Meisel C(3), Kreye J(4), Prüss H(5), Schnabel D(6), 
Kallinich T(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropaediatrics, Charité University Medicine, Berlin, Germany. 
Electronic address: marc.nikolaus@charite.de.
(2)Department of Neuropaediatrics, Charité University Medicine, Berlin, Germany. 
Electronic address: ellen.knierim@charite.de.
(3)Department of Medical Immunology, Charité University Medicine, Berlin & Labor 
Berlin - Charité Vivantes, Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: 
Chr.Meisel@charite.de.
(4)Department of Neurology, Charité University Medicine and German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: 
jakob.kreye@charite.de.
(5)Department of Neurology, Charité University Medicine and German Center for 
Neurodegenerative Diseases (DZNE), Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: 
harald.pruess@charite.de.
(6)Center for Chronically Sick Children, Paediatric Endocrinology, Charité 
University Medicine, Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: 
dirk.schnabel@charite.de.
(7)Center for Chronically Sick Children, Paediatric Endocrinology, Charité 
University Medicine, Berlin, Germany; Paediatric Pneumology and Immunology, 
Charité University Medicine, Berlin and Charité University Medicine, Center for 
Chronically Sick Children, Berlin, Germany. Electronic address: 
tilmann.kallinich@charite.de.

BACKGROUND: Autoimmune-mediated processes are the driving force behind many 
neurological diseases. Autoimmune encephalitis, a group of syndromes, mediated 
by or at least associated with autoantibodies against neuronal tissue, have 
gained increasing importance especially in paediatric neurology. Since the first 
NMDAR encephalitis was described a growing number of patients with 
encephalopathy, seizures and psychiatric symptoms were found to suffer from 
treatable autoimmune disorders. Recently a severe form of encephalitis 
associated with GABAAR antibodies was described showing extensive MRI 
abnormalities and refractory seizures.
CASE: We now describe a child with catatonia and encephalopathy due to 
antibodies against the GABAA receptor. It is a rare paediatric case without the 
development of seizures despite severe encephalopathy.
RELEVANCE: The report extends the phenotype of this rare disease. It 
demonstrates a favourable outcome after introduction of an early and aggressive 
immunomodulatory therapy. Due to the child's history of previous viral 
meningitis, the case raises questions about the unrevealed mechanisms leading to 
autoimmune encephalitis, including the model of a viral trigger as discussed in 
Herpes infection and NMDAR encephalitis. Finally, it describes in detail the 
neuropsychological symptoms and cognitive functions during disease flare and 
recovery.

Copyright © 2018 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2018.01.002
PMID: 29396172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Neurol. 2018 Mar;265(3):669-677. doi: 10.1007/s00415-018-8767-1. Epub 2018
Jan  30.

Glioblastoma as differential diagnosis of autoimmune encephalitis.

Vogrig A(1)(2)(3)(4), Joubert B(2)(3)(4), Ducray F(2)(3)(4), Thomas L(2)(3)(4), 
Izquierdo C(2)(3)(4), Decaestecker K(5), Martinaud O(6)(7), Gerardin E(8), Grand 
S(9), Honnorat J(10)(11)(12)(13).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, Santa Maria della Misericordia University 
Hospital, Udine, Italy.
(2)French Reference Center of Paraneoplastic Neurological Syndrome, Hospices 
Civils de Lyon, Hôpital Neurologique, Lyon, France.
(3)Synatac Team, NeuroMyoGene Institut, INSERM U1217/CNRS, UMR5310, Lyon, 
France.
(4)University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(6)Department of Neurology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(7)Normandie Univ, UNICAEN, EPHE, INSERM, U1077, CHU de Caen, Neuropsychologie 
et Imagerie de la Mémoire Humaine, Caen, France.
(8)Department of Neuroradiology, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(9)Department of Neuroradiology, Grenoble University Hospital, Grenoble, France.
(10)French Reference Center of Paraneoplastic Neurological Syndrome, Hospices 
Civils de Lyon, Hôpital Neurologique, Lyon, France. jerome.honnorat@chu-lyon.fr.
(11)Synatac Team, NeuroMyoGene Institut, INSERM U1217/CNRS, UMR5310, Lyon, 
France. jerome.honnorat@chu-lyon.fr.
(12)University Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Lyon, France. jerome.honnorat@chu-lyon.fr.
(13)Centre de Référence National pour les Syndromes Neurologiques 
Paranéoplasique, Hôpital Neurologique, 59 Boulevard Pinel, 69677, Bron Cedex, 
France. jerome.honnorat@chu-lyon.fr.

OBJECTIVE: To identify the clinical and radiological features that should raise 
suspicion for the autoimmune encephalitis (AE)-like presentation of 
glioblastoma.
METHODS: This is an observational, retrospective case series of patients 
referred to the French National Reference Center on Paraneoplastic Neurological 
Diseases for suspected AE (possible, probable or definite, using the 2016 
criteria) who later received a final diagnosis of glioblastoma according to 2016 
WHO criteria. An extensive literature search was also conducted for similar 
existing cases.
RESULTS: Between 2014 and 2016, 306 patients were referred to our center for 
suspected AE. Six of these patients (2%) later developed pathologically 
confirmed glioblastoma. Thirteen patients (9 male) were included for analysis (6 
from the present series and 7 from the literature); median age was 63. 
Initially, a diagnosis of AE was clinically suspected based on: working memory 
deficits (77%), seizures (62%) (including status epilepticus in 23%), and 
psychiatric symptoms (46%). Initial brain MRI was not in favor of a typical 
glioblastoma pattern and showed bilateral (54%) or unilateral selective limbic 
involvement. Five patients exhibited initial slight contrast enhancement. A 
clear inflammatory CSF was present in five patients and three from the 
literature showed autoantibody positivity (NMDAR, VGKC, GluRepsilon2). Median 
delay between suspicions of AE to GBM diagnosis was 3 months (range 1.5-24) and 
one patient from the literature was diagnosed post-mortem.
CONCLUSIONS: An alternative diagnosis of glioblastoma should be considered in 
patients presenting initially as AE, especially in patients who do not fulfill 
the criteria for definite AE and in those with a poor clinical evolution despite 
initial improvement.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-018-8767-1
PMID: 29383516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Clin Chem. 2018 Feb;64(2):414-415. doi: 10.1373/clinchem.2017.276501.

Atypical Pseudohyponatremia.

Girot H(1), Déhais M(1), Fraissinet F(1), Wils J(1), Brunel V(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France.
(2)Department of Medical Biochemistry, Rouen University Hospital, Rouen, France. 
valery.brunel@chu-rouen.fr.

DOI: 10.1373/clinchem.2017.276501
PMID: 29378746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Expert Rev Mol Diagn. 2018 Feb;18(2):181-193. doi: 
10.1080/14737159.2018.1431124. Epub 2018 Jan 29.

N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor encephalitis: laboratory diagnostics and 
comparative clinical features in adults and children.

Gastaldi M(1), Nosadini M(2), Spatola M(3), Sartori S(2), Franciotta D(4).

Author information:
(1)a Laboratory of Neuroimmunology and Department of Brain and Behavioral 
Sciences , IRCCS Mondino Foundation and University of Pavia , Pavia , Italy.
(2)b Paediatric Neurology and Neurophysiology Unit, Department of Women's and 
Children's Health , University Hospital of Padua , Padova , Italy.
(3)c Department of Clinical Neuroscience , University of Lausanne (UNIL), 
Switzerland and IDIBAPS (Institut d'Investigacions Biomèdiques August Pi i 
Sunyer) Barcelona, Spain , Barcelona , Spain.
(4)d Laboratory of Neuroimmunology , IRCCS Mondino Foundation , Pavia , Italy.

N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis is the most common autoimmune 
encephalitis due to autoantibodies against neuronal surface antigens, can affect 
both children and adults, leading to neurological and neuropsychological 
sequelae. However, it is potentially treatable and the prompt start of 
immunotherapy associates with better prognosis. Conversely, misdiagnosis can be 
harmful. The detection of NMDAR antibodies in serum and cerebrospinal fluid 
plays a pivotal role in the diagnostic work-up. Reliable methods for NMDAR 
antibody detection are thus fundamental to assure accurate diagnosis and allow 
early treatments. Areas covered: This review recapitulates the pathogenic 
mechanisms of NMDAR encephalitis as a model of antibody mediated synaptopathy, 
and gives insights into the related state-of-the-art laboratory testing. The 
differences in clinical presentations, tumor associations and responses to 
treatments between adults and children are also described. Expert commentary: 
The relevance of NMDAR encephalitis has placed neuroimmunology laboratories in a 
crucial position, but methods for NMDAR antibody detection are awaiting thorough 
and consensus-based standardizations. In the next few years, this process, along 
with novel insights into the pathogenic mechanisms, could improve the disease 
management and clarify the still pending role of NMDAR antibodies in healthy 
people and in other more common neuropsychiatric disorders.

DOI: 10.1080/14737159.2018.1431124
PMID: 29376438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Autoimmunity. 2018 Mar;51(2):62-68. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1431776. Epub
 2018 Jan 26.

Functional TSH receptor antibodies in children with autoimmune thyroid diseases.

Stożek K(1), Bossowski A(1), Ziora K(2), Bossowska A(3), Mrugacz M(4), Noczyńska 
A(5), Walczak M(6), Petriczko E(6), Pyrżak B(7), Kucharska A(7), Szalecki 
M(8)(9), Diana T(10), Kahaly GJ(10).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pediatric Endocrinology, Diabetology with Cardiology Division 
, Medical University of Bialystok , Bialystok , Poland.
(2)b Department of Pediatric Nephrology and Endocrinology , Silesian Medical 
University , Zabrze , Poland.
(3)c Division of Cardiology , Internal Affairs Ministry Hospital in Bialystok , 
Białystok , Poland.
(4)d Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Rehabilitation , Medical University 
of Bialystok , Białystok , Poland.
(5)e Department of Endocrinology and Diabetology for Children and Adolescents , 
Wroclaw Medical University , Wrocław , Poland.
(6)f Department of Pediatrics, Endocrinology, Diabetology, Metabolic Diseases 
and Cardiology of the Developmental Age , Pomeranian Medical University , 
Szczecin , Poland.
(7)g Department of Pediatrics and Endocrinology , Medical University of Warsaw , 
Warsaw , Poland.
(8)h Department of Endocrinology and Diabetology , Children's Memorial Health 
Institute , Warsaw , Poland.
(9)i Faculty of Health Sciences , Jan Kochanowski University , Kielce , Poland.
(10)j Molecular Thyroid Research Laboratory, Department of Medicine I , Johannes 
Gutenberg University (JGU) Medical Center , Mainz , Germany.

INTRODUCTION: The diagnostic value of the level of TSH receptor antibodies 
(TSHR-Ab) in the population of children with autoimmune thyroid diseases (AITDs) 
is still unknown. The aim of this cross-sectional study was to investigate the 
prevalence of TSHR-Ab in a paediatric cohort with AITD and healthy controls.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 240 serum samples were obtained from 205 
patients with AITD, type 1 diabetes (T1D), juvenile arthritis (JA), and healthy 
controls (C). TSHR stimulating (TSI) and -blocking (TBI) immunoglobulins were 
measured in cell-based bioassays using CHO cells expressing a chimeric TSHR and 
a c-AMP response-element-dependent luciferase. TSI was reported as percentage of 
specimen-to-reference ratio (cutoff 140SRR%). Blocking activity was defined as 
percent inhibition of luciferase expression relative to induction with bovine 
TSH alone (40% inhibition).
RESULTS: C as well as children with JA and T1D were both TSI and TBI negative. 
In contrast, children with Graves' disease (GD) were positive for TSI in 47/53 
samples (88.7%) while those with thyroidal and orbital GD showed TSI positivity 
in 95.8% (23/24 samples). Serum TSI levels were SRR% 320 ± 157 and 417 ± 135 in 
GD and GD + orbitopathy, respectively (p = .02). Children with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis (HT) were TSI positive in 4/83 (4.8%) samples, including two with 
orbital involvement. TSI levels were increased in HT children with vs. those 
without eye disease (SRR% 177 vs. 51, p < .01). In comparison, TBI were negative 
in all tested samples of children with GD but positive in one HT sample.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, TSI is prevalent in children with GD while the 
highest serum TSI levels were noted in children with AITD and orbitopathy.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2018.1431776
PMID: 29372654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2018 May;22(3):548-551. doi:
10.1016/j.ejpn.2018.01.004.  Epub 2018 Jan 12.

Severe dysautonomia as a main feature of anti-GAD encephalitis: Report of a 
paediatric case and literature review.

Ben Achour N(1), Ben Younes T(2), Rebai I(3), Ben Ahmed M(4), Kraoua I(3), Ben 
Youssef-Turki I(3).

Author information:
(1)Research Unit UR12 SP24 and Department of Child and Adolescent Neurology, 
National Institute Mongi Ben Hmida of Neurology, Tunis, Tunisia; Université de 
Tunis El Manar, Faculté de Médecine de Tunis, 1007, Tunis, Tunisia. Electronic 
address: nediaachour@yahoo.fr.
(2)Research Unit UR12 SP24 and Department of Child and Adolescent Neurology, 
National Institute Mongi Ben Hmida of Neurology, Tunis, Tunisia.
(3)Research Unit UR12 SP24 and Department of Child and Adolescent Neurology, 
National Institute Mongi Ben Hmida of Neurology, Tunis, Tunisia; Université de 
Tunis El Manar, Faculté de Médecine de Tunis, 1007, Tunis, Tunisia.
(4)Department of Clinical Immunology, Institut Pasteur, Tunis, Tunisia; 
Université de Tunis El Manar, Faculté de Médecine de Tunis, 1007, Tunis, 
Tunisia.

INTRODUCTION: Anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase (anti-GAD65) antibodies are a 
rare cause of autoimmune encephalitis. This entity is mainly recognized in 
adults and very few cases were reported in children. We report on a paediatric 
case of anti-GAD encephalitis with severe presentation and uncontrollable 
dysautonomia.
CASE STUDY: A 9-year-old girl was referred to our department for refractory 
seizures and behavioral disturbances. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was 
normal. Repeat screening for antineuronal antibodies showed negative results for 
anti-NMDA receptor antibodies but positive results for anti-GAD65 with a low 
positivity of anti-Ma2 antibodies. Although a transient improvement was noticed 
after immunomodulatory treatment, the patient developed severe intractable 
autonomic imbalance including dysrythmia, alternating bradycardia/tachycardia, 
hypotension/hypertension, hypothermia/hyperthermia and hyperhidrosis. She 
deceased six months after onset.
CONCLUSION: Our report intends to raise awareness of autoimmune encephalitis 
with anti-GAD65 antibodies which may involve extralimbic brain regions and 
manifest with fatal dysautonomia. We highlight the need for prompt diagnosis and 
aggressive management for this underdiagnosed entity in children.

Copyright © 2018 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2018.01.004
PMID: 29370977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Childs Nerv Syst. 2018 Jun;34(6):1251-1254. doi: 10.1007/s00381-018-3720-2.
Epub  2018 Jan 24.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy presenting as pseudobulbar palsy.

Oz Tuncer G(1), Teber S(2), Kutluk MG(2), Albayrak P(2), Deda G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Ankara University, 
Ankara, Turkey. gokcenoz@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Faculty of Medicine, Ankara University, 
Ankara, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is an autoimmune condition with 
varied neurological and psychiatric features. HE is very unusual as a cause of 
pseudobulbar palsy (PSP).
CASE PRESENTATION: A 14-year-old male was admitted with right-sided weakness, 
dysphagia, speech disorder, and aggressiveness. Brain magnetic resonance imaging 
showed increased intensity in bilateral temporal, insular cortex, amygdala, and 
parahippocampal area on T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery 
images. Autoimmune encephalitis was considered as the patient had subacute onset 
of psychiatric and motor disturbances with normal findings for cerebrospinal 
fluid. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, anti-glutamate-type 
α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid 1 and 2, 
anti-contactin-associated protein-like 2, anti-gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor, 
anti-Leucine-rich, and glioma-inactivated 1 antibodies were negative but the 
anti-thyroperoxidase (antiTPO) level was greater than 998 IU/ML (n:0-9). Steroid 
therapy was initiated as pulse therapy and maintained with 2-mg/kg/day dose with 
the diagnosis of HE. He was symptom free for 6 months. In the follow-up period, 
he had two recurrences which responded to steroid therapy.
CONCLUSION: The common causes of PSP are demyelinating, vascular, and motor 
neuron diseases and congenital malformations of the opercular or insular cortex. 
However, there are no cases of PSP developing after any autoimmune encephalitis. 
This case highlights the importance of early detection of antiTPO antibodies 
with the findings of PSP due to autoimmune encephalitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-018-3720-2
PMID: 29368307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. BMJ Case Rep. 2018 Jan 23;2018:bcr2017222373. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2017-222373.

Case of acute mixed liver injury due to hypothyroidism.

Duong N(1), Lee A(1), Lewis J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, MedStar Georgetown University Hospital, 
Washington, DC, USA.

The effects of hypothyroidism on the liver are not well understood. A 
77-year-old woman with Hashimoto's thyroiditis had stopped taking levothyroxine 
on her own for 6 months. Her thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) level was 
consistent with severe hypothyroidism. She resumed thyroid replacement therapy. 
The following month, her liver function tests were significantly elevated. Seven 
weeks after resumption of therapy, her TSH and liver tests had returned to 
normal. We attribute the mixed hepatocellular injury to hypothyroidism that 
resolved on correction of the hypothyroid state. This case reminds us that 
thyroid disease should be considered when evaluating acute liver injury.

© BMJ Publishing Group Ltd (unless otherwise stated in the text of the article) 
2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless otherwise 
expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2017-222373
PMCID: PMC5786968
PMID: 29367365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


240. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2018 Jan;76(1):41-49. doi: 10.1590/0004-282X20170176.

Autoimmune encephalitis: a review of diagnosis and treatment.

Dutra LA(1)(2), Abrantes F(1), Toso FF(1), Pedroso JL(1), Barsottini OGP(1), 
Hoftberger R(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Departamento de Neurologia e 
Neurocirurgia, Divisão de Neurologia Geral, São Paulo SP, Brasil.
(2)Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein, São Paulo SP, Brasil.
(3)Medical University of Vienna, Institute of Neurology, Vienna, Austria.

Autoimmune encephalitis (AIE) is one of the most common causes of noninfectious 
encephalitis. It can be triggered by tumors, infections, or it may be 
cryptogenic. The neurological manifestations can be either acute or subacute and 
usually develop within six weeks. There are a variety of clinical manifestations 
including behavioral and psychiatric symptoms, autonomic disturbances, movement 
disorders, and seizures. We reviewed common forms of AIE and discuss their 
diagnostic approach and treatment.

DOI: 10.1590/0004-282X20170176
PMID: 29364393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Acta Neurol Belg. 2018 Sep;118(3):411-414. doi: 10.1007/s13760-018-0880-5.
Epub  2018 Jan 18.

Autoimmune encephalitis associated with glutamic acid decarboxylase antibodies: 
a case series.

Incecik F(1), Herguner OM(2), Besen S(2), Yılmaz M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Cukurova University Faculty of Medicine, 
Adana, Turkey. fincecik@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurology, Cukurova University Faculty of Medicine, 
Adana, Turkey.
(3)Department of Pediatric Immunology, Cukurova University Faculty of Medicine, 
Adana, Turkey.

Antibodies against glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) are associated with various 
neurologic conditions described in patients including stiff person syndrome, 
cerebellar ataxia, refractory epilepsy, limbic and extralimbic encephalitis. GAD 
antibodies-related limbic encephalitis cases are well described; reports of 
extralimbic involvement are limited. We describe four cases of GAD 
antibody-related autoimmune encephalitis. Three of them had extralimbic 
involvement and only one had limbic encephalitis.

DOI: 10.1007/s13760-018-0880-5
PMID: 29349679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. J Med Ultrason (2001). 2018 Jul;45(3):417-423. doi:
10.1007/s10396-018-0859-0.  Epub 2018 Jan 18.

Quantitative assessment of thyroid gland elasticity with shear-wave elastography 
in pediatric patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Kandemirli SG(1), Bayramoglu Z(2), Caliskan E(2), Sari ZNA(2), Adaletli I(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, Istanbul University, 
Fatih, Istanbul, Turkey. gskandemirli@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Radiology, Istanbul Medical Faculty, Istanbul University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Department of Radiology, Cerrahpasa Medical Faculty, Istanbul University, 
Fatih, Istanbul, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: Hashimoto's thyroiditis is the most common autoimmune thyroid 
disorder in the pediatric age range. Measurement of thyroid gland size is an 
essential component in evaluation and follow-up of thyroid pathologies. Along 
with size, tissue elasticity is becoming a more commonly used parameter in 
evaluation of parenchyma in inflammatory diseases. The aim of the current study 
was to assess thyroid parenchyma elasticity by shear-wave elastography in 
pediatric patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis; and compare the elasticity 
values to a normal control group.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this study; thyroid glands of 59 patients with a 
diagnosis of Hashimoto's thyroiditis based on ultrasonographic and biochemical 
features, and 26 healthy volunteers without autoimmune thyroid disease and 
thyroid function disorders, were evaluated with shear-wave elastography. 
Patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis were further subdivided into three 
categories based on gray-scale ultrasonography findings as focal thyroiditis 
(grade 1), diffuse thyroiditis (grade 2), and fibrotic thyroid gland (grade 3).
RESULTS: Patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis (n = 59) had significantly higher 
elasticity values (14. 9 kPa; IQR 12.9-17.8 kPa) than control subjects 
(10.6 kPa; IQR 9.0-11.3 kPa) (p < 0.001). Of the 59 patients with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis, 23 patients had focal thyroiditis involving less than 50% of the 
gland categorized as grade 1, 24 patients had diffuse involvement of the thyroid 
gland categorized as grade 2, and 12 patients had marked hyperechoic septations 
and pseudonodular appearance categorized as grade 3 on gray-scale ultrasound. 
Based on elastography, grade 3 patients had significantly higher elasticity 
values (19.7 kPa; IQR 17.8-21.5 kPa) than patients with grade 2 (15.5 kPa; IQR 
14.5-17.8 kPa) and grade 1 thyroiditis (12.8 kPa; IQR 11.9-13.1 kPa) (p < 0.05). 
Patients with grade 2 thyroiditis had significantly higher elasticity values 
than those with grade 1 thyroiditis (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Gray-scale ultrasound findings of heterogeneous echotexture and 
hypoechoic echogenicity reflect a longer duration of inflammation and may not be 
found in the initial stages of thyroiditis. Our results indicate that shear-wave 
elastography could be used to evaluate the degree of fibrosis in Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10396-018-0859-0
PMID: 29349581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Sci Rep. 2018 Jan 17;8(1):1012. doi: 10.1038/s41598-018-19490-z.

High albumin level is a predictor of favorable response to immunotherapy in 
autoimmune encephalitis.

Jang Y(1), Lee ST(1), Kim TJ(1), Jun JS(1), Moon J(1), Jung KH(1), Park KI(2), 
Chu K(3), Lee SK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Healthcare System Gangnam 
Center, Seoul, South Korea.
(3)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South 
Korea. stemcell.snu@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Neurology, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South 
Korea. sangkun2923@gmail.com.

There is no known biomarker that predicts the response to immune therapy in 
autoimmune synaptic encephalitis. Thus, we investigated serum albumin as a 
prognostic biomarker of early immune therapies in patients with autoimmune 
encephalitis. We enrolled patients who were diagnosed with definite autoimmune 
encephalitis and underwent IVIg treatment at Seoul National University Hospital 
from 2012 to 2017. Patients were dichotomized according to serum albumin prior 
to IVIg administration with a cut-off level of 4.0 g/dL, which was the median 
value of 50% of patients. Seventeen (53.1%) of the 32 patients with definite 
autoimmune encephalitis who received IVIg treatment in our hospital had low 
serum albumin (<4.0 g/dL). The initial disease severity (mRS ≥ 4) was the sole 
factor that predicted low albumin in autoimmune encephalitis patients using 
multivariate analysis (P = 0.013). The low albumin group exhibited a worse 
response to immune therapy at the third and fourth weeks from IVIg 
administration (P < 0.01 and P = 0.012, respectively), and recovery to 
activities of daily life without assistance was faster in the high albumin group 
(log-rank test for trend, P < 0.01). Our study found that pretreatment low serum 
albumin was a significant indicator of autoimmune encephalitis prognosis in the 
short-term and long-term.

DOI: 10.1038/s41598-018-19490-z
PMCID: PMC5772466
PMID: 29343812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.


244. Ital J Pediatr. 2018 Jan 17;44(1):12. doi: 10.1186/s13052-018-0447-3.

Atypical phenotypic aspects of autoimmune thyroid disorders in young patients 
with Turner syndrome.

Aversa T(1), Gallizzi R(1), Salzano G(1), Zirilli G(1), De Luca F(2), Valenzise 
M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Via Consolare Valeria, 98124, Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Human Pathology in Adulthood and Childhood, University of 
Messina, Via Consolare Valeria, 98124, Messina, Italy. filippo.deluca@unime.it.

Aim of this commentary is to analyze the current views about the phenotypic 
features of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and Graves' disease (GD) in Turner 
syndrome (TS) girls, in terms of epidemiology, clinical and biochemical 
presentation, long-term course and metamorphic autoimmunity evolution. In TS GD 
course is not atypical, whereas HT course is characterized by both a mild 
presenting picture and a severe long-term evolution of thyroid function tests. 
Furthermore, TS girls seem to have an increased risk of switching over time from 
HT to GD. On the light of these findings, it may be concluded that TS girls with 
HT need a careful monitoring of thyroid status over time.
CONCLUSIONS: 1) In children the association with TS is able to condition a 
peculiar phenotypic expression of HT in terms of epidemiology, presentation 
course and long-term metamorphic autoimmunity; 2) by contrast, children with TS 
do not exhibit an atypical clinical and biochemical course of GD, but only a 
significantly higher prevalence of this disease.

DOI: 10.1186/s13052-018-0447-3
PMCID: PMC5773039
PMID: 29343299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.


245. Thyroid. 2018 Feb;28(2):246-256. doi: 10.1089/thy.2017.0286.

SIRT1-Regulated Abnormal Acetylation of FOXP3 Induces Regulatory T-Cell Function 
Defect in Hashimoto's Thyroiditis.

Yang X(1), Lun Y(1), Jiang H(1), Liu X(1), Duan Z(1), Xin S(1), Zhang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, The First Hospital of China Medical 
University , Shenyang, P.R. China .

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is an autoimmune thyroid disease 
characterized by low expression of transcription factor Forkhead Box P3 (FOXP3) 
and functional deficiency of a cluster of differentiation regulatory T cells 
(Tregs). This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of Treg dysfunction in 
HT.
METHODS: The number of CD4+CD25+FOXP3+ T cells was determined by flow cytometry. 
Expression of FOXP3 and Sirtuin type 1 (SIRT1) was evaluated by Western blot 
analysis. Acetylation of FOXP3 was analyzed by immunoprecipitation and Western 
blot analysis. The suppressive function of Treg was analyzed by the 
5,6-carboxyfluorescein diacetate succinimidyl ester (CFSE) assay.
RESULTS: The percentage of CD4+CD25+FOXP3+ T cells, expression of FOXP3, and 
FOXP3 acetylation level in the HT group were significantly lower than in the 
control groups. Conversely, SIRT1 expression was significantly higher in the HT 
group than in the other two groups. After Ex-527 treatment, the CD4+CD25+FOXP3+ 
T cells percentage, FOXP3 expression, and FOXP3 acetylation level in the HT 
group were significantly increased. HT Tregs exhibited less suppressive 
activity, but Ex-527 treatment significantly increased their suppressive 
activity.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings demonstrate that the reduced FOXP3 expression level 
and Treg function defect in HT patients are regulated by SIRT1-mediated abnormal 
FOXP3 acetylation. Ex-527 may upregulate the FOXP3 acetylation level and 
subsequently increase the number and suppressive function of Treg cells.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2017.0286
PMID: 29336238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Thyroid. 2018 Mar;28(3):377-385. doi: 10.1089/thy.2017.0301. Epub 2018 Feb
8.

Alterations of Global DNA Methylation and DNA Methyltransferase Expression in T 
and B Lymphocytes from Patients with Newly Diagnosed Autoimmune Thyroid Diseases 
After Treatment: A Follow-Up Study.

Guo Q(1), Wu D(1)(2), Yu H(3), Bao J(3), Peng S(1), Shan Z(1), Guan H(1), Teng 
W(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Institute of Endocrinology, 
Liaoning Provincial Key Laboratory of Endocrine Diseases, The First Hospital of 
China Medical University , Shenyang, Liaoning, P.R. China .
(2)2 Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, The Third Affiliated Hospital 
of Shenyang Medical College (Shenyang 242 Hospital) , Shenyang, P.R. China .
(3)3 Key Laboratory of Nuclear Medicine, Ministry of Health, Jiangsu Key 
Laboratory of Molecular Nuclear Medicine, Jiangsu Institute of Nuclear Medicine 
, Wuxi, P.R. China .

BACKGROUND: Dysregulated DNA methylation in lymphocytes has been linked to 
autoimmune disorders. The aims of this study were to identify global DNA 
methylation patterns in patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases and to observe 
methylation changes after treatment for these conditions.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted, including the following 
patients: 51 with newly diagnosed Graves' disease (GD), 28 with autoimmune 
hypothyroidism (AIT), 29 with positive thyroid autoantibodies, and 39 matched 
healthy volunteers. Forty GD patients treated with radioiodine or antithyroid 
drugs and 28 AIT patients treated with L-thyroxine were followed for three 
months. Serum free triiodothyronine, free thyroxine, thyrotropin, thyroid 
peroxidase antibodies, thyroglobulin antibodies, and thyrotropin receptor 
antibodies were assayed using electrochemiluminescent immunoassays. CD3+ T and 
CD19+ B cells were separated by flow cytometry for total DNA and RNA extraction. 
Global DNA methylation levels were determined by absorptiometry using a 
methylation quantification kit. DNA methyltransferase (DNMT) expression levels 
were detected by real-time polymerase chain reaction.
RESULTS: Hypomethylation and down-regulated DNMT1 expression in T and B 
lymphocytes were observed in the newly diagnosed GD patients. Neither the AIT 
patients nor the positive thyroid autoantibodies patients exhibited differences 
in their global DNA methylation status or DNMT mRNA levels compared with healthy 
controls. Antithyroid drugs restored global methylation and DNMT1 expression in 
both T and B lymphocytes, whereas radioiodine therapy affected only T cells. 
L-thyroxine replacement did not alter the methylation or DNMT expression levels 
in lymphocytes. The global methylation levels of B cells were negatively 
correlated with the serum thyroid peroxidase antibodies in patients with 
autoimmune thyroid diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Hyperthyroid patients with newly diagnosed GD had global 
hypomethylation and lower DNMT1 expression in T and B lymphocytes. The results 
provide the first demonstration that antithyroid drugs or radioiodine treatment 
restore global DNA methylation and DNMT1 expression with concurrent relief of 
hyperthyroidism.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2017.0301
PMID: 29336230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Arch Argent Pediatr. 2018 Feb 1;116(1):56-58. doi: 10.5546/aap.2018.eng.56.

Hashimoto's disease in a cohort of 29 children and adolescents. Epidemiology, 
clinical course, and comorbidities in the short and long term.

[Article in English, Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Gómez López E(1), Nso-Roca AP(2), Juste Ruiz M(3), Cortés Castell E(4).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurología, Hospital General Universitario Reina Sofía, Murcia 
(España).
(2)Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Universitario San Juan de Alicante, San Juan 
de Alicante, Alicante (España). ananso@yahoo.es.
(3)Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Universitario San Juan de Alicante, San Juan 
de Alicante, Alicante (España).
(4)Departamento de Farmacología, Pediatría y Química Orgánica, Universidad 
Miguel Hernández de Elche, San Juan de Alicante, Alicante (España).

Hashimoto's thyroiditis is the most common cause of goiter and hypothyroidism 
among children and adolescents. Its clinical manifestations and course vary. The 
objective of this study was to review the clinical and evolutionary 
characteristics of Hashimoto's disease in the pediatric population. Clinical, 
analytical, ultrasound, epidemiological, and evolutionary data of patients with 
autoimmune thyroiditis seen at Hospital Universitario San Juan de Alicante 
between January 2010 and January 2016 were analyzed. A total of 29 patients were 
included in the study. A higher prevalence of girls was observed, at a 2:1 
ratio. The main reason for consultation was the accidental detection of high 
thyroid stimulating hormone levels or positive anti-thyroid antibodies in a lab 
test done for other reason. In the initial analysis, 53.3% of patients had 
subclinical hypothyroidism and only 10% of them had frank hypothyroidism. Two 
patients developed thyroid cancer.

Publisher: La tiroiditis de Hashimoto es la causa más común de bocio e 
hipotiroidismo en niños y adolescentes. Las manifestaciones clínicas y la 
evolución son variables. El objetivo de este trabajo es revisar las 
particularidades clínicas y evolutivas de la enfermedad de Hashimoto en 
población pediátrica. Se analizaron datos clínicos, analíticos, ecográficos, 
epidemiológicos y evolutivos de los pacientes con tiroiditis autoinmune del 
Hospital Universitario San Juan de Alicante desde enero de 2010 hasta enero de 
2016. En el estudio, se incluyeron un total de 29 pacientes. Se observó una 
mayor prevalencia en niñas con una relación 2:1. El principal motivo de consulta 
fue la detección casual de una hormona estimulante de la tiroides elevada o de 
positividad de anticuerpos antitiroideos en una analítica por otro motivo. En la 
analítica inicial, el 53,3% de los pacientes presentaba hipotiroidismo 
subclínico y tan solo el 10% de ellos, hipotiroidismo franco. Dos de los 
pacientes desarrollaron cáncer de tiroides.

Sociedad Argentina de Pediatría.

DOI: 10.5546/aap.2018.eng.56
PMID: 29333819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Pharmacol Rep. 2018 Feb;70(1):93-97. doi: 10.1016/j.pharep.2017.07.019. Epub
 2017 Jul 27.

Moderate-dose simvastatin therapy potentiates the effect of vitamin D on thyroid 
autoimmunity in levothyroxine-treated women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis and 
vitamin D insufficiency.

Krysiak R(1), Szkróbka W(2), Okopień B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland. Electronic address: r.krysiak@interia.pl.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin D preparations reduce titers of thyroid antibodies in women 
with autoimmune thyroiditis. The same effect was induced by high-dose, but not 
moderate-dose-, statin therapy. No previous study has investigated the impact of 
concomitant treatment with a statin and vitamin D on thyroid autoimmunity.
METHODS: The study included three matched groups of women with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis and low vitamin D status. Groups B (n=19) and C (n=20) were treated 
with vitamin D (2000 IU daily). Because of coexistent hypercholesterolemia, 
groups A (n=18) and B received simvastatin (40mg daily). Plasma lipids, serum 
levels of thyrotropin, free thyroid hormones and 25-hydroxyvitamin D, as well as 
titers of thyroid peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies were measured at the 
beginning of the study and 6 months later.
RESULTS: At baseline, 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels inversely correlated with 
titers of thyroid antibodies. In groups A and B, simvastatin reduced plasma 
levels of total and LDL cholesterol. Simvastatin produced no effect on thyroid 
antibody titers. Vitamin D decreased titers of thyroid peroxidase antibodies, as 
well as tended to decrease titers of thyroglobulin antibodies. 
Simvastatin-vitamin D combination therapy reduced serum titers of thyroid 
peroxidase and thyroglobulin antibodies and this effect was stronger than the 
effect of simvastatin and vitamin D administered alone. Treatment-induced 
changes in thyroid antibody titers correlated with baseline antibody titers, 
baseline levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin and treatment-induced changes in 
25-hydroxyvitamin.
CONCLUSIONS: The obtained results indicate that simvastatin may potentiate the 
impact of vitamin D on thyroid autoimmunity in vitamin D-deficient women with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Copyright © 2017 Institute of Pharmacology, Polish Academy of Sciences. 
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pharep.2017.07.019
PMID: 29331793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Internist (Berl). 2018 Feb;59(2):151-158. doi: 10.1007/s00108-017-0373-2.

[Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes : A current summary].

[Article in German]

De Simoni D(1), Höftberger R(2).

Author information:
(1)Klinisches Institut für Neurologie, Medizinische Universität Wien, Währinger 
Gürtel 18-20, 1090, Wien, Österreich. desiree.desimoni@meduniwien.ac.at.
(2)Klinisches Institut für Neurologie, Medizinische Universität Wien, Währinger 
Gürtel 18-20, 1090, Wien, Österreich. romana.hoeftberger@meduniwien.ac.at.

BACKGROUND: Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes (PNNS) are remote effects of 
a tumor and mediated by an altered immune reaction. In the last ten years, the 
spectrum of PNNS has changed profoundly with the discovery of a new category of 
neurological diseases that are associated with antibodies against surface or 
synaptic antigens. In contrast to classical PNNS, patients with surface receptor 
autoimmunity are often highly responsive to immunotherapy.
OBJECTIVES: This article provides an update on the most relevant PNNS, focusing 
on specific syndromes associated with antibodies against classical onconeuronal 
antigens as well as surface and synaptic proteins.
RESULTS: Classical PNNS are associated with antibodies against intracellular 
antigens (onconeuronal antibodies). They usually precede the tumor diagnosis and 
lead to the detection of the neoplasm. Affected patients are often older and 
have an unfavorable prognosis. Patients with surface receptor autoimmunity can 
have a similar presentation as classical PNNS; however, the disease is not 
necessarily triggered by a tumor and patients usually show a good response to 
treatment. Some surface receptor antibodies might manifest in highly 
characteristic syndromes and the resulting disease is named after the antibody, 
such as in anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis. Other 
antibodies have considerable overlap in their clinical presentation and may be 
difficult to distinguish, such as in limbic encephalitis associated with 
GABA(B)R and α‑amino-3-hydroxy-5-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolpropionsäure 
receptor (AMPAR) antibodies. The diagnosis of the PNNS is important for an early 
recognition of a tumor and prompt initiation of treatment, which is associated 
with a better outcome of patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-017-0373-2
PMID: 29327271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Thyroid. 2018 Feb;28(2):175-186. doi: 10.1089/thy.2017.0395. Epub 2018 Feb
1.

Alterations of the Gut Microbiota in Hashimoto's Thyroiditis Patients.

Zhao F(1), Feng J(1), Li J(1), Zhao L(1), Liu Y(1), Chen H(1), Jin Y(1), Zhu 
B(1), Wei Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncological and Endoscopic Surgery, The First Affiliated 
Hospital of Harbin Medical University , Harbin, People's Republic of China .

Comment in
    Front Immunol. 2024 Jan 04;14:1213159. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2023.1213159.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is an organ-specific autoimmune disease 
in which both genetic predisposition and environmental factors serve as disease 
triggers. Many studies have indicated that alterations in the gut microbiota are 
important environmental factors in the development of inflammatory and 
autoimmune diseases. A comparative analysis was systematically performed of the 
gut microbiota in HT patients and healthy controls.
METHODS: First, a cross-sectional study of 28 HT patients and 16 matched healthy 
controls was conducted. Fecal samples were collected, and microbiota were 
analyzed using 16S ribosomal RNA gene sequencing. Second, an independent cohort 
of 22 HT patients and 11 healthy controls was used to evaluate the diagnostic 
potential of the selected biomarkers.
RESULTS: Similar levels of bacterial richness and diversity were found in the 
gut microbiota of HT patients and healthy controls (p = 0.11). A detailed fecal 
microbiota Mann-Whitney U-test (Q value <0.05) revealed that the abundance 
levels of Blautia, Roseburia, Ruminococcus_torques_group, Romboutsia, Dorea, 
Fusicatenibacter, and Eubacterium_hallii_group genera were increased in HT 
patients, whereas the abundance levels of Fecalibacterium, Bacteroides, 
Prevotella_9, and Lachnoclostridium genera were decreased. A correlation matrix 
based on the Spearman correlation distance confirmed correlations among seven 
clinical parameters. Additionally, the linear discriminant analysis effect size 
method showed significant differences in 27 genera between the two groups that 
were strongly correlated with clinical parameters. The linear discriminant 
analysis value was used to select the first 10 species from the 27 different 
genera as biomarkers, achieving area under the curve values of 0.91 and 0.88 for 
exploration and validation data, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Characterization of the gut microbiota in HT patients confirmed 
that HT patients have altered gut microbiota and that gut microbiota are 
correlated with clinical parameters, suggesting that microbiome composition data 
could be used for disease diagnosis. Further investigation is required to 
understand better the role of the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of HT.

DOI: 10.1089/thy.2017.0395
PMID: 29320965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Immunol Invest. 2018 Apr;47(3):279-292. doi: 10.1080/08820139.2018.1423571.
Epub  2018 Jan 10.

Association of increased eomesodermin, BCL6, and granzyme B expression with 
major clinical manifestations of Hashimoto's thyroiditis - an observational 
study.

Štefanić M(1)(2), Tokić S(3)(2), Suver Stević M(4), Glavaš-Obrovac L(3).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Nuclear Medicine and Oncology, Faculty of Medicine , 
University of Osijek , Osijek , Croatia.
(2)c Department of Nuclear Medicine and Radiation Protection , Osijek University 
Hospital , Osijek , Croatia.
(3)b Department of Medical Chemistry, Biochemistry and Clinical Chemistry, 
Faculty of Medicine , University of Osijek , Osijek , Croatia.
(4)d Department of Laboratory Diagnostics and Clinical Transfusion Medicine, 
Clinical Institute of Transfusion Medicine , Osijek University Hospital , Osijek 
, Croatia.

PURPOSE: Studies of cytotoxic T cells and their respective lineage master 
regulators have been limited in Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). It is unclear 
whether their transcriptomes are changed in HT patients and how these changes 
are associated with the thyroid damage, major clinical manifestations, and 
disease progression.
METHODS: We explored the gene expression patterns of selected transcription 
factors [eomesodermin (EOMES), BACH2, BCL6, TCF1] and cytolytic molecules 
[granzyme B (GZMB)] in peripheral blood (PB) T cells of 10 healthy controls and 
30 HT patients of various subtypes (hypothyroid, untreated HT; L-thyroxine 
(T4)-treated HT, and spontaneously euthyroid HT) using real-time quantitative 
PCR.
RESULTS: EOMES (Mann-Whitney P = 0.044), GZMB (P = 0.028), and BCL6 mRNA 
(P = 0.001) were overrepresented in PB T cells from HT and showed levels varying 
by age, thyroid volume and disease severity. BCL6 transcripts were predominantly 
enriched in severely affected, hypothyroid cases, both on and off LT4. Increased 
EOMES RNA expression was associated with advancing age, lower thyroid volumes 
and higher peak adjusted TSH levels over the course of the disease. The body 
mass-adjusted, steady-state maintenance dose of LT4 increased with GZMB and BCL6 
levels in PB T cells of hypothyroid cases, mostly postmenopausal women having 
long-standing, non-goitrous and atrophic disease form.
CONCLUSIONS: Our exploratory results suggest a role for GZMB, EOMES, and BCL6 in 
the context of HT, thyroid injury, and aggressive/advanced disease forms. 
Functions enriched within differentially expressed transcripts could be an 
important new target in understanding the pathogenesis of HT.

DOI: 10.1080/08820139.2018.1423571
PMID: 29319368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Nervenarzt. 2018 Aug;89(8):942-944. doi: 10.1007/s00115-017-0471-3.

[Severe hyponatremia as precursor of LGI1 autoimmune encephalitis].

[Article in German]

Muhr P(1), Goldammer U(2), Bien CG(3)(4), Bien C(4), Sindern E(2).

Author information:
(1)Neurologische Klinik, Diakovere Friederikenstift, Humboldtstraße 5, 30169, 
Hannover, Deutschland. Philipp.muhr@diakovere.de.
(2)Neurologische Klinik, Diakovere Friederikenstift, Humboldtstraße 5, 30169, 
Hannover, Deutschland.
(3)Epilepsie-Zentrum Bielefeld-Bethel, Krankenhaus Mara, Bielefeld, Deutschland.
(4)Labor Krone, Bad Salzuflen, Deutschland.

DOI: 10.1007/s00115-017-0471-3
PMID: 29318331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2018 Jan 9;47(1):4. doi: 
10.1186/s40463-017-0247-6.

Clinical implications of the BRAF mutation in papillary thyroid carcinoma and 
chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis.

Kim WW(1), Ha TK(2), Bae SK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Haeundae Paik Hospital, Inje University 
College of Medicine, Busan, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of General Surgery, Busan Paik Hospital, Inje University College 
of Medicine, 75, Bokji-ro, Busanjin-gu, 614-735, Busan, Republic of Korea. 
hasus@hanmail.net.
(3)Department of Medical Management, Kosin University, Busan, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to examine the possible prognostics 
and clinicopathologic characteristics underlying the BRAFV600E mutation and 
papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) coexisting or in absence of chronic 
lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT).
METHODS: This study was conducted on 172 patients who had undergone total 
thyroidectomy or unilateral total thyroidectomy for PTC; the patients were then 
examined for the BRAFV600E mutation using specimens obtained after their surgery 
from January 2013 to August 2015.
RESULTS: BRAF mutations were found in 130 of 172 patients (75.6%). CLT was 
present in 27.9% of patients (48/172). The incidence of the BRAFV600E mutation 
was significantly increased in the group with no CLT (P = 0.001). The findings 
of the multivariate analysis pertaining to the coexistence of CLT and PTC showed 
no significant correlation other than the BRAFV600E mutation. No significant 
difference was noted in the clinicopathologic factors between the two groups 
based on the coexistence of CLT in univariate and multivariate analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: The BRAFV600E mutation is less frequent in PTC coexisting with CLT 
presumably because CLT and the BRAFV600E mutation operate independently in the 
formation and progression of thyroid cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/s40463-017-0247-6
PMCID: PMC5759356
PMID: 29316976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: This 
study was approved by Inje University Busan Paik Hospital institutional review 
board CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable COMPETING INTERESTS: The authors 
declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: Springer Nature 
remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and 
institutional affiliations.


254. J Diabetes Investig. 2018 Jan;9(1):226-227. doi: 10.1111/jdi.12648.

Aggravation of type 2 diabetes mellitus triggered by acute exacerbation of 
chronic thyroiditis (Hashimoto's disease).

Takai M(1), Anno T(1), Kawasaki F(1), Shigemoto R(1), Kan Y(1), Kaneto H(2), 
Kaku K(1), Okimoto N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Internal Medicine 1, Kawasaki Medical School, Okayama, 
Japan.
(2)Department of Diabetes, Metabolism and Endocrinology, Kawasaki Medical 
School, Kurashiki, Japan.

DOI: 10.1111/jdi.12648
PMCID: PMC5754519
PMID: 29314778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2018 Apr;44(4):739-746. doi: 10.1111/jog.13554. Epub
2018  Jan 3.

Levothyroxine supplementation improves serum anti-Müllerian hormone levels in 
infertile patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Kuroda M(1)(2), Kuroda K(3), Segawa T(1), Noh JY(4), Yoshihara A(4), Ito K(4), 
Osada H(2), Takeda S(3), Teramoto S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Shinbashi Yume Clinic, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Natural ART Clinic Nihonbashi, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Juntendo University, Faculty of 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(4)Ito Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

AIM: Thyroid dysfunction and autoimmunity are associated with an adverse effect 
on fertility. An aberrant high thyroid stimulating hormone level is associated 
with diminished ovarian reserve in women of reproductive age; however, the 
utility of levothyroxine (LT4) replacement for infertile patients with 
subclinical hypothyroidism is still under discussion. The aim of this study was 
to investigate whether LT4 supplementation for infertile patients with 
subclinical hypothyroidism improves impaired ovarian function.
METHODS: We measured levels of serum thyroid-related hormones and a biomarker of 
ovarian function, anti-Müllerian hormone (AMH) in infertile women from 2014 to 
2015. Out of a consecutive 1431 infertile patients, 311 patients with an 
elevated thyroid stimulating hormone level (≥ 2.5 μIU/mL) underwent detailed 
thyroid examinations, including blood tests of thyroid antibodies. We recruited 
174 infertile patients, excluding patients with factors impacting ovarian and 
thyroid function. We evaluated alterations in AMH and thyroid related hormone 
levels during LT4 supplementation and infertility treatment with assisted 
reproductive technology.
RESULTS: After LT4 supplementation, no significant change in the average AMH 
level was detected overall. However, the AMH level in 35 patients with 
Hashimoto's disease increased significantly after treatment (1 month 1.3 ± 0.5 
fold, P = 0.007; 3 months 1.3 ± 0.4 fold, P = 0.040). The AMH level in patients 
with thyroglobulin antibody-positive and thyroid peroxidase antibody-negative 
also significantly increased after LT4 treatment (1 and 3 months 1.5 fold; 
P = 0.023).
CONCLUSION: In the patients with Hashimoto's disease, preconception LT4 
treatment may relieve adverse effects, including autoimmune antibodies, and 
support follicular development.

© 2018 Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/jog.13554
PMID: 29297967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Ann Neurol. 2018 Jan;83(1):166-177. doi: 10.1002/ana.25131.

Autoimmune encephalitis epidemiology and a comparison to infectious 
encephalitis.

Dubey D(1), Pittock SJ(1)(2), Kelly CR(1), McKeon A(1)(2), Lopez-Chiriboga 
AS(1), Lennon VA(1)(2)(3), Gadoth A(1), Smith CY(4), Bryant SC(4), Klein 
CJ(1)(2), Aksamit AJ(1), Toledano M(1), Boeve BF(1), Tillema JM(1), Flanagan 
EP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurology.
(2)Laboratory Medicine and Pathology.
(3)Immunology.
(4)Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.

Comment in
    Ann Neurol. 2018 May;83(5):1038. doi: 10.1002/ana.25230.
    Ann Neurol. 2018 May;83(5):1037. doi: 10.1002/ana.25229.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the incidence and prevalence of autoimmune encephalitis 
and compare it to that of infectious encephalitis.
METHODS: We performed a population-based comparative study of the incidence and 
prevalence of autoimmune and infectious encephalitis in Olmsted County, 
Minnesota. Autoimmune encephalitis diagnosis and subgroups were defined by 2016 
diagnostic criteria, and infectious encephalitis diagnosis required a confirmed 
infectious pathogen. Age- and sex-adjusted prevalence and incidence rates were 
calculated. Patients with encephalitis of uncertain etiology were excluded.
RESULTS: The prevalence of autoimmune encephalitis on January 1, 2014 of 
13.7/100,000 was not significantly different from that of all infectious 
encephalitides (11.6/100,000; p = 0.63) or the viral subcategory (8.3/100,000; 
p = 0.17). The incidence rates (1995-2015) of autoimmune and infectious 
encephalitis were 0.8/100,000 and 1.0/100,000 person-years, respectively 
(p = 0.58). The number of relapses or recurrent hospitalizations was higher for 
autoimmune than infectious encephalitis (p = 0.03). The incidence of autoimmune 
encephalitis increased over time from 0.4/100,000 person-years (1995-2005) to 
1.2/100,000 person-years (2006-2015; p = 0.02), attributable to increased 
detection of autoantibody-positive cases. The incidence (2.8 vs 0.7/100,000 
person-years, p = 0.01) and prevalence (38.3 vs 13.7/100,000, p = 0.04) of 
autoimmune encephalitis was higher among African Americans than Caucasians. The 
prevalence of specific neural autoantibodies was as follows: myelin 
oligodendrocyte glycoprotein, 1.9/100,000; glutamic acid decarboxylase 65, 
1.9/100,000; unclassified neural autoantibody, 1.4/100,000; leucine-rich 
glioma-inactivated protein 1, 0.7/100,000; collapsin response-mediator protein 
5, 0.7/100,000; N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, 0.6/100,000; antineuronal nuclear 
antibody type 2, 0.6/100,000; and glial fibrillary acidic protein α, 
0.6/100,000.
INTERPRETATION: This study shows that the prevalence and incidence of autoimmune 
encephalitis are comparable to infectious encephalitis, and its detection is 
increasing over time. Ann Neurol 2018;83:166-177.

© 2018 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.25131
PMCID: PMC6011827
PMID: 29293273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential conflicts of interest No authors had 
conflicts of interests relevant to this study.


257. J Endocrinol Invest. 2018 Jul;41(7):831-837. doi: 10.1007/s40618-017-0811-y.
 Epub 2017 Dec 29.

Hyperhomocysteinemia in acute iatrogenic hypothyroidism: the relevance of 
thyroid autoimmunity.

Cicone F(1), Santaguida MG(2), My G(3), Mancuso G(4), Papa A(5), Persechino 
R(6), Virili C(2), Brusca N(2), Tofani A(5), Scopinaro F(5), Centanni M(2).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Nuclear Medicine, Department of Surgical and Medical Sciences and 
Translational Medicine, Sant'Andrea Hospital, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Via 
di Grottarossa 1035, 00189, Rome, Italy. f.cicone@iol.it.
(2)Unit of Endocrinology, Department of Medico-Surgical Sciences and 
Biotechnologies, AUSL Latina, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Rome, Italy.
(3)Unit of Endocrinology, University of Bari Aldo Moro, Bari, Italy.
(4)Department of Psychology, University of Fribourg, Fribourg, Switzerland.
(5)Unit of Nuclear Medicine, Department of Surgical and Medical Sciences and 
Translational Medicine, Sant'Andrea Hospital, "Sapienza" University of Rome, Via 
di Grottarossa 1035, 00189, Rome, Italy.
(6)Unit of Radiology, Department of Surgical and Medical Sciences and 
Translational Medicine, Sant'Andrea Hospital, "Sapienza" University of Rome, 
Rome, Italy.

PURPOSE: Hyperhomocysteinemia is a known cardiovascular risk factor and a key 
player in the inflammatory activation of autoimmune diseases. Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis (HT) is the leading cause of hypothyroidism which, in itself, has 
been associated with a significant raise of homocysteine (Hcy) levels and 
increased cardiovascular risk. Our aim was to assess the impact of HT on Hcy 
levels in patients with acute hypothyroidism.
METHODS: We prospectively enrolled 121 patients (mean age: 46 years, 
F/M = 102/19) with acute post-surgical hypothyroidism. Based on the presence of 
anti-thyroid antibodies and the histological description of an inflammatory 
infiltrate, 26 and 95 patients were classified as HT and non-HT, respectively. 
Several parameters including thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), levels of serum 
free T3 and free T4, weight, glucose levels, total cholesterol, creatinine, 
vitamin B12, ferritin and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were obtained from all 
patients and correlated with Hcy levels.
RESULTS: Median Hcy level in the whole cohort was 16.8 µmol/L (normal 
values: < 12 µmol/l). Among all parameters analysed, only Hcy levels were 
significantly different between HT and non-HT patients (median Hcy = 19.7 vs 
16.2 µmol/L, respectively; p = 0.018, Mann-Whitney U test). Analysis of 
covariance showed the presence of HT to be the strongest predictor of Hcy levels 
(coefficient = 0.25534, p = 0.001). Serum TSH was not significantly associated 
with Hcy levels (p = 0.943).
CONCLUSION: In patients with iatrogenic hypothyroidism, those with HT have 
significantly higher Hcy levels than those without HT. The increase of Hcy 
levels appears to be mainly determined by the HT-related immune-inflammatory 
condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-017-0811-y
PMID: 29288439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2018 Jan;120(1):107-108. doi: 
10.1016/j.anai.2017.08.291.

Urticarial vasculitis and autoimmune thyroid disease: Do we have enough data?

Cherrez Ojeda I(1), Vanegas E(2), Greiding L(3), Cherrez A(4).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Especialidades Espíritu Santo, School of Medicine, Samborondón, 
Ecuador; Respiralab Research Group, Guayaquil, Ecuador. Electronic address: 
ivancherrez@gmail.com.
(2)Universidad Especialidades Espíritu Santo, School of Medicine, Samborondón, 
Ecuador; Respiralab Research Group, Guayaquil, Ecuador.
(3)Instituto Argentino de Alergia e Inmunología, Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(4)Respiralab Research Group, Guayaquil, Ecuador; Department of Dermatology and 
Venereology, University Medicine Rostock, Rostock, Germany.

Comment in
    Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2018 Jan;120(1):108. doi: 
10.1016/j.anai.2017.10.018.

Comment on
    Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2017 Apr;118(4):394-398. doi: 
10.1016/j.anai.2017.01.017.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2017.08.291
PMID: 29273120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Arch Dis Child. 2018 Jul;103(7):637-642. doi:
10.1136/archdischild-2017-313454.  Epub 2017 Dec 21.

Long-term outcome of thyrotoxicosis in childhood and adolescence in the west of 
Scotland: the case for long-term antithyroid treatment and the importance of 
initial counselling.

Kourime M(1), McGowan S(2), Al Towati M(2), Ahmed SF(2), Stewart G(3), 
Williamson S(4), Hunter I(5), Donaldson MDC(2).

Author information:
(1)University Hospital Abderrahim Harouchi, Casablanca, Morocco.
(2)Child Health Section, Glasgow University School of Medicine, Royal Hospital 
for Sick Children, Glasgow, UK.
(3)Royal Alexandra Hospital, Paisley, Scotland, UK.
(4)Crosshouse Hospital, Ayrshire, Scotland, UK.
(5)Wishaw General Hospital, Lanarkshire, Scotland, UK.

Comment in
    Arch Dis Child. 2018 Jul;103(7):627-628. doi: 
10.1136/archdischild-2017-314486.

BACKGROUND: Thyrotoxicosis is both rarer and more severe in children than in 
adults, rendering management difficult and often unsatisfactory.
OBJECTIVE: To ascertain outcome in a geographically defined area of Scotland 
between 1989 and 2014.
METHOD: Retrospective case note review with follow-up questionnaire to family 
doctors for patients with Graves' disease and Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
RESULTS: Sixty-six patients (58 females:8 males) comprising 53 with Graves' 
disease and 13 with Hashimoto's thyroiditis were diagnosed at median 10.4 
(2.9-15.8) years and followed up for 11.8 (2.6-30.2) years. Antithyroid drug 
(ATD) therapy was stopped electively in 35 patients after 4.5 (1.5-8.6) years, 
resulting in remission in 10/13 Hashimoto's thyroiditis and 10/22 Graves' 
disease. Side effects occurred in 12 patients receiving carbimazole, six of whom 
changed to propylthiouracil; no adverse events occurred in the latter 
patients.Second-line therapy was given to 37 patients (34 with Graves' disease), 
comprising radioiodine (22) at 15.6 (9.3-24.4) years for relapse (6), poor 
control/adherence (14) or electively (2); and surgery (16) at 12 (6.4-21.3) 
years for relapse (4), poor control/adherence (5) and electively (7). Adherence 
problems with thyroxine replacement were reported in 10/33 patients in 
adulthood.
CONCLUSIONS: Hashimoto's thyroiditis should be distinguished from Graves' 
disease at diagnosis since the prognosis for remission is better. Remission 
rates for Graves' disease are low (10/53 patients), time to remission variable 
and adherence with both ATD and thyroxine replacement often problematic. We 
recommend (a) the giving of long-term ATD rather than a fixed course of 
treatment in GD and (b) meticulous and realistic counselling of families from 
the time of diagnosis onwards.

© Article author(s) (or their employer(s) unless otherwise stated in the text of 
the article) 2018. All rights reserved. No commercial use is permitted unless 
otherwise expressly granted.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2017-313454
PMCID: PMC6047164
PMID: 29269558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.


260. Indian J Pediatr. 2018 Aug;85(8):691-692. doi: 10.1007/s12098-017-2564-1.
Epub  2017 Dec 20.

Post-Herpetic Autoimmune Encephalitis.

Chaudhary H(1), Kasinathan A(1), Sharawat IK(1), Saini AG(1), Mahadevan A(2), 
Sankhyan N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & 
Research, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Neuropathology, NIMHANS, Bengaluru, India.
(3)Pediatric Neurology and Neurodevelopment Unit, Department of Pediatrics, Post 
Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh, 160012, India. 
drnsankhyan@yahoo.co.in.

DOI: 10.1007/s12098-017-2564-1
PMID: 29260374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Autoimmunity. 2018 Feb;51(1):35-42. doi: 10.1080/08916934.2017.1416468. Epub
 2017 Dec 19.

Polymorphisms and expression of genes encoding Argonautes 1 and 2 in autoimmune 
thyroid diseases.

Tokiyoshi E(1), Watanabe M(1), Inoue N(1)(2), Hidaka Y(2), Iwatani Y(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Biomedical Informatics, Division of Health Sciences , Osaka 
University Graduate School of Medicine , Suita , Osaka , Japan.
(2)b Laboratory for Clinical Investigation , Osaka University Hospital , Suita , 
Osaka , Japan.

The microRNA (miRNA) biogenesis pathway is regulated by specific proteins and 
enzymes, including Dicer, Drosha, DGCR8, Exportin 5 and the Argonaute (AGO) 
family. In this study, we investigated the AGO family, which is the primary 
component of RISC (RNA-induced silencing complex) and directly binds to 
microRNA. We examined the association of polymorphisms in AGO family genes with 
AGO expression and with the development and prognosis of autoimmune thyroid 
diseases. We genotyped AGO1 rs636832A/G, AGO2 rs7005286C/T, AGO2 rs11166985A/G 
and AGO2 rs2292779C/G polymorphisms in 184 Graves' disease (GD) patients, 195 
Hashimoto's disease (HD) patients and 122 healthy volunteers using the 
polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism method. We 
also examined the expression of AGO1 and AGO2 mRNAs in peripheral blood 
mononuclear cells (PBMC) obtained from 52 GD patients, 41 HD patients, and 25 
healthy volunteers using quantitative RT-PCR methods. The G allele of AGO1 
rs636832 and the A allele of AGO2 rs11166985 polymorphisms were significantly 
more frequent in GD patients than in healthy controls. The A allele of AGO2 
rs11166985 was also significantly more frequent in intractable GD patients than 
in controls. The C carrier (CC + CG genotypes) and C allele of AGO2 rs2292779 
polymorphism were significantly more frequent in intractable GD patients than in 
patients with GD in remission. Expression of AGO1 mRNA in PBMC was significantly 
higher in AITD patient than in controls, and that of AGO2 mRNA in PBMC was 
significantly higher in intractable GD patients than in patients with GD in 
remission. Furthermore, the expression levels of both the AGO1 and AGO2 genes 
were significantly correlated with the proportions of Th17 cells in PBMC. In 
conclusion, the polymorphisms of the AGO1 and AGO2 genes, the expression levels 
of which correlated with the proportion of Th17 cells, were associated with the 
development and prognosis of GD. The AGO2 rs2292779 C carrier and C allele were 
associated with the intractability of GD.

DOI: 10.1080/08916934.2017.1416468
PMID: 29256262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Neuroradiology. 2018 Feb;60(2):189-198. doi: 10.1007/s00234-017-1956-2. Epub
 2017 Dec 18.

Metabolic topography of autoimmune non-paraneoplastic encephalitis.

Tripathi M(1), Tripathi M(2), Roy SG(3), Parida GK(3), Ihtisham K(2), Dash D(2), 
Damle N(3), Shamim SA(3), Bal C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, 110029, India. madhavi.dave.97@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurology, Cardiothoracic and Neurosciences Centre, All India 
Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(3)Department of Nuclear Medicine, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New 
Delhi, 110029, India.

PURPOSE: F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) is 
emerging to be a useful tool in supporting the diagnosis of AIE. In this study, 
we describe the metabolic patterns on F-18 FDG PET imaging in AIE.
METHODS: Twenty-four antibody-positive patients (anti-NMDA-15, anti-VGKC/LGI1-6, 
and anti-GAD-3), 14 females and 10 males, with an age range of 2-83 years were 
included in this study. Each PET study was evaluated visually for the presence 
of hypometabolism or hypermetabolism and semiquantitatively using Cortex ID (GE) 
and Scenium (Siemens) by measuring regional Z-scores. These patterns were 
correlated with corresponding antibody positivity once available.
RESULTS: Visually, a pattern of hypometabolism, hypermetabolism, or both in 
various spatial distributions was appreciated in all 24 patients. On 
quantitative analysis using scenium parietal and occipital lobes showed 
significant hypometabolism with median Z-score of -3.8 (R) and -3.7 (L) and -2.2 
(R) and -2.5 (L) respectively. Two-thirds (16/24) showed significant 
hypermetabolism involving the basal ganglia with median Z-score of 2.4 (R) and 
3.0 (L). Similarly on Cortex ID, the median Z-score for hypometabolism in 
parietal and occipital lobes was -2.2 (R) and -2.4 (L) and -2.6 (R) and -2.4 (L) 
respectively, while subcortical regions were not evaluated. MRI showed signal 
alterations in only 11 of these patients.
CONCLUSION: There is heterogeneity in metabolic topography of AIE which is 
characterized by hypometabolism most commonly involving the parietal and 
occipital cortices and hypermetabolism most commonly involving the basal 
ganglia. Scenium analysis using regional Z-scores can complement visual 
evaluation for demonstration of these metabolic patterns on FDG PET.

DOI: 10.1007/s00234-017-1956-2
PMID: 29255919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Asian J Surg. 2019 Jan;42(1):112-119. doi: 10.1016/j.asjsur.2017.10.006.
Epub  2017 Dec 15.

Pediatric differentiated thyroid carcinoma: The clinicopathological features and 
the coexistence of Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Ren PY(1), Liu J(1), Xue S(1), Chen G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thyroid Surgery, The First Hospital of Jilin University, Jilin 
University, Changchun, 130021, China.
(2)Department of Thyroid Surgery, The First Hospital of Jilin University, Jilin 
University, Changchun, 130021, China. Electronic address: cg9293@sina.com.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to assess outcomes and the 
detailed clinicopathological features of differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC), 
including the relation of Hashimoto's thyroiditis and postoperative pathological 
features in child under 18 years old.
METHODS: We reviewed patients with DTC under 18 years old (pediatric DTC 
patients) seen during recent 16 years. The clinicopathological features and 
outcomes of pediatric DTC were analyzed by comparison with patients of 19-20 
years old or 21-44 years old.
RESULTS: Sixty four children with DTC [median age 16 years (range, 5-18)] were 
studied. The ratio of female to male was 5:1, but no difference was found by 
comparison with adult of 21-44 years old. No difference was found in 
multifocality, but DTC in child showed lager tumor size (P < 0.001), higher rate 
of extrathyroidal extension (P = 0.017), more local or pulmonary metastasis 
(P < 0.001, P < 0.001 respectively) than adult thyroid carcinoma. High rate of 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis (19/43) without influence on pathological features was 
found in patients under 18 years old. No differences, except for distant 
metastasis, were found by comparison of clinicopathological features between 
patients under 18 years old and 19-20 years old. Pediatric patients possessed 
highest rates of persistent/recurrent disease, though only one child died.
CONCLUSION: Pediatric DTC has more aggressive behavior characterized by a high 
rate of extrathyroidal extension, local and pulmonary metastasis. Pediatric DTC 
has low mortality, but active treatments are needed for the high risk of 
persistent or recurrent diseases. Hashimoto's thyroiditis may be associated with 
the pathogenesis or mechanism of pediatric DTC.

Copyright © 2017. Published by Elsevier Taiwan LLC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.asjsur.2017.10.006
PMID: 29254871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Clin Neurol Neurosurg. 2018 Jan;164:160-163. doi: 
10.1016/j.clineuro.2017.12.012. Epub 2017 Dec 12.

Autoimmune encephalitis with GABA(A) receptor antibodies in a 10-year-old girl.

Figlerowicz M(1), Kemnitz P(2), Mania A(2), Mazur-Melewska K(2), Tomczak E(2), 
Kuls K(2), Jończyk-Potoczna K(3), Graus F(4), Służewski W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases and Child Neurology, Karol Marcinkowski 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznań, Poland. Electronic address: 
mfiglerowicz@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases and Child Neurology, Karol Marcinkowski 
University of Medical Sciences, Poznań, Poland.
(3)Pediatric Radiology, Department of Radiology, Karol Marcinkowski University 
of Medical Sciences, Poznań, Poland.
(4)Service of Neurology, Hospital Clinic, Barcelona, Spain.

Recent studies have indicated that some cases of nonparaneoplastic autoimmune 
encephalitis in children can be caused by a systemic autoimmune disorder that 
generates autoantibodies to cell membrane proteins. We describe the clinical 
features of a 10-year-old girl with autoimmune encephalitis with autoantibodies 
against the GABAA receptor in whom type 1 diabetes mellitus developed during the 
course of the disease. The diagnosis was based on the progressive course of 
disease, pleocytosis in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), inflammatory changes in 
the brain and autoantibodies against the GABAA receptor detected in serum 
(absent in CSF). The treatment of encephalitis included intravenous 
immunoglobulins, intravenous methylprednisolone, oral prednisolone, cycles of 
plasmapheresis; this led to temporary remission. Finally, rituximab was applied 
as a second-line therapy with positive results.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clineuro.2017.12.012
PMID: 29245105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Ann Neurol. 2018 Jan;83(1):40-51. doi: 10.1002/ana.25120. Epub 2018 Jan 10.

Mechanisms of Caspr2 antibodies in autoimmune encephalitis and neuromyotonia.

Patterson KR(1), Dalmau J(1)(2)(3), Lancaster E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, PA.
(2)Hospital Clinic-August Pi i Sunyer Biomedical Research Institute (IDIBAPS), 
University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Catalan Institution for Research and Advanced Studies Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the pathogenic mechanisms of autoantibodies to the cell 
adhesion molecule Caspr2 in acquired neuromyotonia and autoimmune encephalitis.
METHODS: Caspr2-positive samples were confirmed using a cell-based assay, and 
their IgG subtypes were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and 
cell-based assay. A solid phase binding assay quantified the binding of Caspr2 
to contactin-2 in the presence of Caspr2 autoantibodies. Living cultures of 
primary rat hippocampal neurons were incubated with Caspr2-positive or control 
sera, and the distribution of Caspr2-positive immunofluorescent puncta and total 
surface Caspr2 was quantified. HEK cells transfected to express Caspr2 were 
incubated with Caspr2-positive or control samples, and cell-surface 
biotinylation and Western blot were used to assess total, internalized, and 
surface levels of Caspr2.
RESULTS: We confirmed 6 samples with strong Caspr2 reactivity. IgG4 Caspr2 
antibodies were present in all 6 cases. Caspr2 interacted with another cell 
adhesion molecule, contactin-2, with nanomolar affinity in the solid phase 
assay, and Caspr2 autoantibodies inhibited this interaction. Caspr2 
autoantibodies did not affect the surface expression of Caspr2 in rat primary 
hippocampal neurons or transfected HEK cells.
INTERPRETATION: Caspr2 autoantibodies inhibit the interaction of Caspr2 with 
contactin-2 but do not cause internalization of Caspr2. Functional blocking of 
cell adhesion molecule interactions represents a potential mechanism with 
therapeutic implications for IgG4 autoantibodies to cell adhesion molecules in 
neurological diseases. Ann Neurol 2018;83:40-51.

© 2017 American Neurological Association.

DOI: 10.1002/ana.25120
PMCID: PMC5876120
PMID: 29244234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Potential Conflicts of Interest Dr Dalmau 
receives royalties from Euroimmun for the use of NMDA, GABAB receptor, GABAA 
receptor, DPPX and IgLON5 as autoantibody tests; he has received an unrestricted 
research grant from Euroimmun.


266. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2018 Oct;40(7):e435-e438. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0000000000001045.

Congenital Hemophilia A Presenting With Hashimoto's Encephalopathy and 
Myocarditis: The First Reported Case.

Ergul AB(1), Altuner Torun Y(2), Altug U(1), Mutlu FT(2), Celik SF(3), Guven 
AS(4).

Author information:
(1)Departments ofPediatric Intensive Care Unit.
(2)Pediatric Hematology.
(3)Pediatric Cardiology.
(4)Pediatric Neurology, Kayseri Training and Research Hospital, University of 
Health Sciences, Kayseri, Turkey.

Here, we report a case of hemophilia A with myocarditis, encephalopathy, and 
spontaneous intramedullary hemorrhage. A 14-month-old male infant presented with 
loss of consciousness, generalized tonic-clonic convulsions, and cardiac 
failure. The neurological examination was normal. Myocarditis was diagnosed. 
After administration of fresh frozen plasma, the aPTT did not return to normal. 
The factor VIII (FVIII) level was 10.2% the normal level, and the patient was 
diagnosed with hemophilia A. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) evaluation was 
unremarkable, with the exception of elevated CSF protein levels. An 
electroencephalogram revealed diffuse slowing of background activity. The spinal 
MRI revealed chronic bleeding in areas of the medulla spinalis. Tests for the 
antibodies associated with autoimmune encephalitis were negative. 
Anti-thyroglobulin (THG) (11.8 U/mL [normal, 0 to 4 U/mL]) and anti-thyroid 
peroxidase (TPO) (53.9 U/mL [normal, 0 to 9 U/mL]) antibodies were present in 
the serum. The patient received 1 g/kg intravenous immunoglobulin G (IVIG) for 2 
days based on a diagnosis of myocarditis and Hashimoto's encephalopathy. After 
the first month of treatment his clinical findings were negative. He developed 
an inhibitor to FVIII 1 month after initiation of FVIII replacement therapy. 
Hemophilia A has various clinical presentations. Autoimmunity may lead to early 
inhibitor development in patients with hemophilia.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000001045
PMID: 29240027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. J Endocrinol Invest. 2018 Jun;41(6):703-709. doi: 10.1007/s40618-017-0794-8.
 Epub 2017 Dec 11.

Chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT) has a positive prognostic value in 
papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) patients: the potential key role of Foxp3+ T 
lymphocytes.

Pilli T(1), Toti P(2), Occhini R(2), Castagna MG(3), Cantara S(3), Caselli M(3), 
Cardinale S(3), Barbagli L(2), Pacini F(3).

Author information:
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Department of Medical Surgical and Neurological 
Sciences, University of Siena, Viale Bracci 1, 53100, Siena, Italy. 
t.pilli.e@ao-siena.toscana.it.
(2)Section of Pathology, Department of Medical Biotechnology, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy.
(3)Section of Endocrinology, Department of Medical Surgical and Neurological 
Sciences, University of Siena, Viale Bracci 1, 53100, Siena, Italy.

BACKGROUND: An impact of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis (CLT) on papillary 
thyroid cancer (PTC) outcome has long been advocated but it is still 
controversial.
PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the prognostic value of CLT in a 
retrospective cohort of PTC patients and to characterize the lymphocytic 
subpopulations and infiltrate (LI).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We assessed 375 PTC patients, aged 45.2 ± 16.4 years, and 
treated with thyroidectomy and radioiodine remnant ablation, with a mean 
follow-up of 6.28 ± 3.86 years. In a subgroup of patients (n = 81) tissue 
sections were reviewed for the presence of CLT or lymphocytes associated with 
tumor in absence of background thyroiditis (TAL); cytotoxic CD8+/regulatory 
Foxp3+ T lymphocyte (CD8+/Foxp3+) ratio was characterized by 
immunohistochemistry: a low ratio is suggestive of a less effective anti tumor 
immune response.
RESULTS: Seventy-five/375 patients (20%) had a histological diagnosis of CLT and 
showed at the last follow-up a significantly better outcome compared to those 
with no CLT (cure rate: 91.8 versus 76.3%, p = 0.003). LI was characterized in 
81 PTC patients (24 with CLT and 57 with TAL): the peri-tumoral 
CD8+/Foxp3+ ratio was lower in patients not cured at the final evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggest that concurrent CLT has a protective effect on PTC 
outcome and that the imbalance between cytotoxic and regulatory T lymphocytes in 
the peri-tumoral TAL may affect the tumor-specific immune response favoring a 
more aggressive behavior of cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-017-0794-8
PMID: 29230715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Asian J Psychiatr. 2018 Feb;32:112-113. doi: 10.1016/j.ajp.2017.11.034. Epub
 2017 Dec 6.

Is Depression with increased antithyroid autoantibodies a mere chance finding or 
Hashimoto's Encephalopathy?

Navin K(1), Kuppili PP(2), Bharadwaj B(3), Menon V(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, JIPMER,Puducherry, 605006, India. Electronic 
address: drmknavin@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, JIPMER,Puducherry, 605006, India. Electronic 
address: poojapatnaik.aiims@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, JIPMER,Puducherry, 605006, India. Electronic 
address: bharadwaj.balaji@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, JIPMER,Puducherry, 605006, India. Electronic 
address: drvmenon@gmail.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajp.2017.11.034
PMID: 29223829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Eur J Paediatr Neurol. 2018 Jan;22(1):182-185. doi:
10.1016/j.ejpn.2017.11.005.  Epub 2017 Nov 24.

Febrile infection-related epilepsy syndrome (FIRES) with super-refractory status 
epilepticus revealing autoimmune encephalitis due to GABA(A)R antibodies.

Caputo D(1), Iorio R(2), Vigevano F(1), Fusco L(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurophysiology Unit, Department of Neuroscience, Bambino Gesù Children's 
Hospital, Rome, Italy.
(2)Institute of Neurology, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario "Agostino 
Gemelli", Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(3)Neurophysiology Unit, Department of Neuroscience, Bambino Gesù Children's 
Hospital, Rome, Italy. Electronic address: lucia.fusco@opbg.net.

BACKGROUND: Febrile infection-related epilepsy syndrome (FIRES) has been 
described as an epileptic encephalopathy of unknown etiology affecting 
previously healthy children following febrile illness. Despite large 
investigations on autoimmune pathogenesis no membrane antibodies has been 
associated since now.
CASE STUDY: We report a 13 years-old girl with negative history for neurological 
or autoimmune disease that developed at the sixth day of high fever a 
super-refractory status epilepticus. All investigations, including the most 
common antibodies related to immune-mediated encephalitis were negative. 
Seizures continued despite several therapeutic trials with anesthetics 
(midazolam, propofol) and antiepileptic agents as well as i.v. immunoglobulins 
but responded, at day 10 from the onset, to ketamine and high dose i.v. 
steroids. Due the high suspicion of autoimmune encephalitis we tested patient's 
CSF and plasma on mouse brain with positive response. We subsequently detected a 
high titre of GABAAR antibodies. After the resolution of the status epilepticus 
the patient achieved complete recovery of neurological functions.
CONCLUSION: this is the first reported case of a FIRES-like condition due to 
autoimmune encephalitis mediated by GABAAR antibodies. Our case suggests that 
GABAAR antibodies should be investigated FIRES.

Copyright © 2017 European Paediatric Neurology Society. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpn.2017.11.005
PMID: 29203057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Arch Physiol Biochem. 2018 Oct;124(4):351-356. doi: 
10.1080/13813455.2017.1408660. Epub 2017 Nov 29.

The effect of oxidative stress on the progression of Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Ates I(1), Arikan MF(1), Altay M(1), Yilmaz FM(2), Yilmaz N(1), Berker D(3), 
Guler S(3).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Internal Medicine , Ankara Numune Training and Research 
Hospital , Ankara , Turkey.
(2)b Department of Biochemistry , Ankara Numune Training and Research Hospital , 
Ankara , Turkey.
(3)c Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism , Ankara Numune Training and 
Research Hospital , Ankara , Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: We aimed to investigate the effects of oxidative stress in the 
pathogenesis and progression of Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT).
METHODS: Forty euthyroid and 40 subclinical hypothyroid patients older than 
18 years and not yet had received treatment were enrolled in the study.
RESULTS: In the 9 months follow-up, 14 of the HT patients developed overt 
hypothyroidism. The mean total oxidant status (TOS) and oxidative stress index 
(OSI) were higher in patients who developed overt hypothyroidism than those who 
did not (p < .001). And no significant difference was found between the two 
groups in terms of paraoxanase-1 and arylesterase (p > .05). Multivariable Cox 
regression model showed thyroid stimulating hormone level (HR = 1.348, 
p < .001), free-thyroxine level (HR = 0.481, p = .017) and OSI ratio 
(HR = 2.349, p < .001) to be independent predictors of development of overt 
hypothyroidism. OSI level, being over 2.96 with 92.9% sensitivity and 62.5% 
specificity, predicts the risk of hypothyroidism.
CONCLUSION: Oxidative stress may be an effective risk factor in the development 
of overt hypothyroidism in HT.

DOI: 10.1080/13813455.2017.1408660
PMID: 29185364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Int Immunopharmacol. 2018 Jan;54:280-285. doi: 10.1016/j.intimp.2017.11.024.
 Epub 2017 Nov 23.

CD26 expression is down-regulated on CD8(+) T cells in patients with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Liu Y(1), Li Y(2), Gong Y(3), Yu N(2), Zhang Y(2), You R(3), Qu C(3), Lu G(2), 
Huang Y(2), Gao Y(4), Gao Y(2), Guo X(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Sir Run Run Shaw Hospital Affiliated to School 
of Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310016, PR China.
(2)Department of Endocrinology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 
100034, PR China.
(3)Department of Clinical Laboratory, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 
100034, PR China.
(4)Department of Endocrinology, Peking University First Hospital, Beijing 
100034, PR China. Electronic address: bjgaoying@yahoo.com.

The immune mechanism underlying Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) remains unclear. 
CD26, also known as dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4), is a multifunctional 
molecule involved in the pathophysiology of autoimmune diseases. This study 
aimed to investigate the role of CD26 in the pathogenesis of HT. Peripheral 
blood was drawn from 20 healthy controls and 31 HT patients (19 mild HT patients 
and 12 severe HT patients). Plasma sCD26 concentrations were measured by ELISA, 
and sCD26 enzymatic activity was assessed using a luciferase-based assay. The 
expression levels of membrane-bound CD26 were analyzed by flow cytometry. Plasma 
sCD26 concentrations were lower in HT patients than in healthy controls, 
although the difference in sCD26 concentrations between the two groups did not 
reach statistical significance (P=0.07). The percentages of CD8+ T cells and Tc1 
cells with CD26 expression were decreased in HT patients compared with those in 
healthy controls, and the mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) values of CD26 on 
CD8+ T cells and Tc17 cells in HT patients were significantly lower than in 
healthy controls (P<0.05). In HT patients, the expression of CD26 on CD8+ T 
cells and Tc subsets was decreased in the hypothyroidism group compared with 
that in the euthyroid group (P<0.05). These results suggest that the sCD26 
concentrations and membrane-bound CD26 levels on CD8+ T cells are aberrant in HT 
and that the reduced CD26 expression may be involved in the progression of HT.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.intimp.2017.11.024
PMID: 29175506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Gene. 2018 Feb 5;642:430-438. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.11.057. Epub 2017 Nov
22.

Interaction of HLA-DRB1* alleles and CTLA4 (+49 AG) gene polymorphism in 
Autoimmune Thyroid Disease.

Ramgopal S(1), Rathika C(1), Padma MR(1), Murali V(2), Arun K(3), Kamaludeen 
MN(4), Balakrishnan K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, School of Biological Sciences, Madurai Kamaraj 
University, Madurai 625021, India.
(2)Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, Lubbock, TX 79430, United 
States.
(3)Endocrinology & Diabetology, Madurai Institute of Diabetes and Endocrine 
Practice and Research, Madurai 625001, India.
(4)Abban Hospital, Madurai 625020, India.
(5)Department of Immunology, School of Biological Sciences, Madurai Kamaraj 
University, Madurai 625021, India. Electronic address: 
immunobala@mkuniversity.org.

Autoimmune Thyroid Diseases (AITDs), including Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and 
Graves' disease (GD), arise by the complex interaction of genes and 
environmental factors. The aim of present study was to study the susceptible 
associations of HLA-DRB1* alleles and CTLA4 +49 AG polymorphism in AITD in south 
India. AITD patients (n=235; HT=180; GD=55) and age/sex matched healthy controls 
(n, 235) were enrolled to type HLA-DRB1* alleles and 'CTLA4 +49 AG' by PCR-SSP 
and PCR-RFLP methods respectively. Analysis revealed CTLA4 +49 'GG' genotype was 
increased significantly in patients (PL: p=8.7×10-8; HT: p=9.3×10-6; GD: 
p=0.006). Decreased frequencies of 'AA' genotype was observed in patients (PL: 
p=9.4×10-6; HT: p=0.008; GD: p=9.0×10-6). Increased frequencies were observed 
for HLA alleles DRB1*12 (PL: p=1.42×10-10; HT: p=5.75×10-8; GD: p=0.002) and 
DRB1*11 (PL: p=0.0025; HT: p=0.013) in patients. Decreased frequencies for 
alleles DRB1*10 (PL: p=0.00002; HT: p=0.018; GD: p=1.63×10-5) and DRB1*03 (PL: 
p=0.003; HT: p=0.003) were observed, suggesting a protective association. 
Combinatorial/Synergistic analysis have revealed an increased frequencies for 
'DRB1*11+AG' (PL: p=0.022), 'DRB1*12+AG' (PL: p=6.1×10-5; HT: p=0.0001), 
'DRB1*04+GG' (PL: p=0.003; HT: p=0.008), 'DRB1*07+GG' (PL: p=0.009; HT: p=0.014) 
and 'DRB1*12+GG' (PL: p=0.005; HT: p=0.005) in patients. However, the 
combinations such as 'DRB1*10+AA' (PL: p=1.8×10-6; HT: p=0.003) and 'DRB1*15+AA' 
(PL: p=0.006; GD: p=0.011) were decreased in patients showing a protective 
association. The 'GG/G' of CTLA4 +49AG SNP, HLA-DRB1*11/-DRB1*12 (DR5) alleles 
and the combinations of DRB1*11/DRB1*12 alleles with AG/GG genotype and 
DRB1*04/07/12 alleles with GG genotype may act as synergistic manner to confer 
the strong susceptibility to AITD in south India.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.11.057
PMID: 29174716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Child Adolesc Psychiatr Clin N Am. 2018 Jan;27(1):37-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.chc.2017.08.011. Epub 2017 Oct 20.

Evaluation and Management of Autoimmune Encephalitis: A Clinical Overview for 
the Practicing Child Psychiatrist.

Mooneyham GC(1), Gallentine W(2), Van Mater H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Division of Child and Family Mental Health and 
Developmental Neurosciences, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA; Autoimmune Brain 
Disease Program, Department of Pediatrics, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA. 
Electronic address: Genalynne.mooneyham@duke.edu.
(2)Autoimmune Brain Disease Program, Department of Pediatrics, Neurology 
Division, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.
(3)Autoimmune Brain Disease Program, Department of Pediatrics, Rheumatology 
Division, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

Medical conditions that present with psychiatric symptoms are becoming 
increasingly well-recognized in response to the emergence of the field of 
neuroimmunology. As the availability of testing for novel antineuronal 
antibodies has increased, so too has the clinical awareness of this diagnostic 
spectrum. Psychiatrists may have little exposure to this area of expertise, yet 
may be called on to assist in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with 
complex neuropsychiatric syndromes secondary to autoimmune encephalitis. This 
article summarizes the evaluation and management of patients with autoimmune 
encephalitis and describes emerging patterns in phenotype recognition.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chc.2017.08.011
PMID: 29157501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Exp Clin Endocrinol Diabetes. 2018 May;126(5):321-326. doi: 
10.1055/s-0043-120342. Epub 2017 Nov 8.

The Effect of Hypolipidemic Agents on Thyroid Autoimmunity in Women with 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis Treated with Levothyroxine and Selenomethionine.

Krysiak R(1), Szkróbka W(#)(1), Okopień B(#)(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine and Clinical Pharmacology, Medical University 
of Silesia, Katowice, Poland.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Levothyroxine and selenomethionine were found to reduce thyroid 
antibody titers in patients with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. The same effect was 
produced by intensive statin therapy. The aim of the present study was to assess 
whether hypolipidemic agents modulate the impact of thyroid hormone 
supplementation and selenomethionine on thyroid autoimmunity.
METHODS: The study included 62 women with Hashimoto's thyroiditis treated for at 
least 6 months with levothyroxine and selenomethionine. On the basis of plasma 
lipids, women were divided into three groups: women with isolated 
hypercholesterolemia (group A; n=20), women with isolated hypertriglyceridemia 
(group B; n=17), and women with normal plasma lipids (group C; n=25). Group A 
were then treated with atorvastatin (20 mg daily), while group B received 
micronized fenofibrate (200 mg daily). Serum titers of thyroid peroxidase and 
thyroglobulin antibodies, as well as serum levels of thyrotropin, free thyroxine 
and free triiodothyronine were measured at the beginning of the study and 6 
months later.
RESULTS: Fenofibrate decreased triglycerides and increased HDL cholesterol, 
while simvastatin decreased total and LDL cholesterol. Fenofibrate reduced 
titers of thyroid peroxidase and, to a lesser extent, thyroglobulin antibodies. 
Atorvastatin tended to increase thyroid peroxidase antibodies. No changes in 
thyrotropin, free thyroxine and free triiodothyronine were observed in any 
treatment group. Fenofibrate-induced changes in thyroid antibody titers 
correlated with baseline antibody titers, as well as with treatment-induced 
changes in HDL cholesterol and insulin sensitivity.
CONCLUSIONS: The obtained results indicate that only fibrates may potentiate the 
effect of selenomethionine and levothyroxine on thyroid autoimmunity in women.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0043-120342
PMID: 29117614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


275. Diagn Cytopathol. 2018 May;46(5):413-418. doi: 10.1002/dc.23859. Epub 2017
Nov  8.

Carcinoma showing thymus like elements: Report of a case with EGFR T790M 
mutation.

Rajeshwari M(1), Singh V(1), Nambirajan A(1), Mridha AR(1), Jain D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi 
110029, India.

Carcinoma showing thymus-like differentiation of the thyroid (CASTLE) is a rare 
tumor involving the thyroid and perithyroidal soft tissues. It shares 
morphological, immunohistochemical and molecular similarities with thymic 
carcinomas. Due to its relatively better prognosis, it needs differentiation 
from other primary and metastatic tumors of this region. A 40-year-old lady 
presented with a gradually progressive anterior neck swelling for one year. 
Imaging showed bulky right and left lobes of thyroid along with a solid soft 
tissue mass in the pretracheal region. Fine needle aspiration smears showed 
features of poorly differentiated carcinoma. Total thyroidectomy with excision 
of the mass revealed histopathological features characteristic of CASTLE, with 
evidence of thyroiditis in adjoining thyroid. Epidermal growth factor receptor 
(EGFR) assay revealed presence of EGFR T790M somatic mutation in exon 20. The 
same was not detectable on direct sequencing. We present a rare case of CASTLE, 
occurring in association with Hashimoto thyroiditis, with emphasis on 
cytological features and report for the first time the presence of a low level 
somatic mutation in EGFR (EGFR T790M mutation).

© 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dc.23859
PMID: 29115061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Ultrasound Q. 2018 Jun;34(2):67-70. doi: 10.1097/RUQ.0000000000000324.

Sonographic Features of Cervical Lymph Nodes in Patients With Hashimoto 
Thyroiditis and the Impacts From the Levothyroxine With Prednisone Therapy.

Lyu GR, Zheng WK(1), Lin WL(1), Zheng LP(1), Guo HX(1), Li LY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ultrasound, The Second Affiliated Hospital of Fujian Medical 
University.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the ultrasonographic pattern of cervical 
lymph nodes (CLNs) and whether levothyroxine with prednisone therapy is 
effective for lymphadenopathy in patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT).
METHODS: This retrospective study was looking at patients with confirmed 
diagnosis of HT who underwent comprehensive neck ultrasound examination. We 
reviewed sonographic findings in 127 patients with HT, 234 euthyroid patients 
with goiter, and 122 healthy subjects. In addition, 30 untreated HT patients 
with cervical lymphadenopathy were recruited for the levothyroxine with 
prednisone therapy. We rescanned the patients 9 months after treatment with 
levothyroxine and prednisone.
RESULTS: Patients with HT had a higher rate of CLN detection on ultrasound than 
euthyroid patients with goiter and healthy subjects at cervical levels III, IV, 
and VI (P < 0.01). In addition, patients with HT had a higher rate of detection 
of CLNs with abnormal sonographic features than the other 2 groups, most notably 
at cervical levels III, IV, and VI (P < 0.01). After the treatment, the mean 
thyroid volume, thyroid nodule volume, CLN volume, symptom score, and cosmetic 
grade of 30 HT patients were remarkably decreased (P < 0.01 or P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Hashimoto thyroiditis seems to be associated with an increased rate 
of detection of CLNs with abnormal sonographic features, particularly at 
cervical levels III, IV, and VI. Therapy with levothyroxine with prednisone is 
effective for cervical lymphadenopathy in patients with HT.

DOI: 10.1097/RUQ.0000000000000324
PMID: 29112639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Endocr J. 2018 Feb 26;65(2):175-180. doi: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ17-0319. Epub
2017  Nov 2.

Warthin-like papillary thyroid carcinoma with immunoglobulin G4-positive plasma 
cells possibly related to Hashimoto's thyroiditis.

Hirokawa M(1), Nishihara E(2), Takada N(3), Higuchi M(3), Kotakemori M(3), 
Hayashi T(1), Miyauchi A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Cytology, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 
Shimoyamate-dori, Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0011, Japan.
(2)Department of Ineternal Medicine, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 Shimoyamate-dori, 
Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0011, Japan.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 Shimoyamate-dori, 
Chuo-Ku, Kobe, Hyogo 650-0011, Japan.
(4)Department of Surgery, Kuma Hospital, 8-2-35 Shimoyamate-dori, Chuo-Ku, Kobe, 
Hyogo 650-0011, Japan.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis with heavy lymphoplasmacytic infiltration is a common 
comorbidity of immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4)-related thyroiditis and Warthin-like 
papillary thyroid carcinoma (WL-PTC). We hypothesized that WL-PTC may have a 
strong association with IgG4-related thyroiditis. To validate this hypothesis, 
we clinically and immunohistochemically studied 17 WL-PTC cases. Fourteen 
patients (82.4%) had anti-thyroglobulin antibody and were confirmed to have 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis through microscopic analysis. Among them, five (29.4%) 
had disease consistent with IgG4-related thyroiditis but did not exhibit a 
"storiform" pattern or obliterative phlebitis. IgG4-related diseases were not 
found in other organs. No cases with serum IgG4 level of >135 mg/dL were noted. 
A total of 94.1% of WL-PTC cases had IgG4-positive plasma cells (+PCs) in the 
stroma, and cases with rich IgG4+PCs were more frequently associated with 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis than those with poor IgG4+PCs. In this study, all three 
cases without Hashimoto's thyroiditis had poor IgG4+PCs, and one of them did not 
exhibit IgG4+PCs in the stroma of WL-PTC and Hashimoto's thyroiditis. Nodal 
metastatic lesions were seen in eight cases, all of which were not WL-PTC. As 
such, we should consider that the Hashimoto's disease with rich IgG4+PCs seen in 
our cases is representative of non-IgG4-related disease and not IgG4-related 
disease involving multiple organs. This study is the first to demonstrate the 
presence of IgG4+PCs in the stroma of WL-PTC. We concluded that the appearance 
of IgG4+PCs in the stroma of WL-PTC may be related to Hashimoto's thyroiditis 
with rich IgG4+PC.

DOI: 10.1507/endocrj.EJ17-0319
PMID: 29093307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2018 Feb;88(2):279-284. doi: 10.1111/cen.13506. Epub
2017  Nov 24.

Risk factors stratifying malignancy of nodules in contralateral thyroid lobe in 
patients with pre-operative ultrasound indicated unilateral papillary thyroid 
carcinoma: A retrospective analysis from single centre.

Lv T(1), Zhu C(2), Di Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Ruijin Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong University 
School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Pediatric Neurosurgery, Xinhua Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.

OBJECTIVE: Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the most common thyroid 
carcinoma with a favourable clinical outcome. For unilateral PTC patients with 
thyroid nodules in the contralateral lobes, the necessity of total thyroidectomy 
(TT) is still in doubt. In this study, we aimed to define clinical factors that 
could be indicators for malignancy in nodules in the contralateral thyroid lobe, 
which could aid the clinician in selecting the appropriate operation approach.
DESIGN, PATIENTS AND MEASUREMENTS: This is a retrospective study from January 
2014 to December 2016 conducted in Shanghai Ruijin Hospital. A total of 1442 
cases with unilateral PTC and ultrasonographically benign nodules in the 
contralateral lobe who underwent TT at a single institution were enrolled. All 
patients underwent pre-operative ultrasonography (US), and all the cases were 
confirmed by board-certified pathologists. Clinicopathological features such as 
age, gender, tumour location, tumour size, TgAb and TPOAb levels, capsular 
invasion, multifocality, central lymph node metastases and BRAF mutation were 
examined to evaluate the rate of malignancy in the contralateral thyroid 
nodules.
RESULTS: In total, 47% of patients (677 cases)were confirmed to have malignancy 
in the contralateral lobe. Univariant analysis indicated that capsular invasion, 
Hashimoto's thyroiditis, multifocal loci, central lymph node metastases as well 
as BRAF mutation predicted a high incidence of occult contralateral carcinoma. 
Multivariant analysis showed capsular invasion, multifocal ipsilateral thyroid 
lobe, central lymph node metastases as well as BRAF mutation can serve as 
independent predictors for malignancy in the contralateral thyroid lobe.
CONCLUSIONS: Malignancy in the contralateral lobe was found in 47% of patients. 
This finding was associated with multifocal primary carcinomas involvement, 
capsular invasion, Hashimoto's thyroiditis history, central lymph node 
metastases and BRAF mutation, which should therefore be taken into consideration 
when planning therapeutic strategy for the patients.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.13506
PMID: 29083503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. J Clin Apher. 2018 Jun;33(3):444-446. doi: 10.1002/jca.21597. Epub 2017 Oct
30.

Therapeutic plasma exchange For Hashimoto's encephalopathy.

Simmons SC(1), Staley EM(1), Dorn DP(1), Nails AP(1), Marques MB(1), Williams LA 
3rd(1), Pham HP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Laboratory Medicine, Department of Pathology, The University of 
Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, Alabama.
(2)Department of Pathology, Keck School of Medicine of the University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California.

DOI: 10.1002/jca.21597
PMID: 29083097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. J Ultrasound Med. 2018 May;37(5):1143-1149. doi: 10.1002/jum.14459. Epub
2017  Oct 24.

Acoustic Radiation Force Impulse Quantification in the Evaluation of Thyroid 
Elasticity in Pediatric Patients With Hashimoto Thyroiditis.

Yucel S(1), Ceyhan Bilgici M(1), Kara C(2), Can Yilmaz G(2), Aydin HM(2), Elmali 
M(1), Tomak L(3), Saglam D(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Radiology, Ondokuz Mayis University School of Medicine, 
Samsun, Turkey.
(2)Departments of Pediatric Endocrinology, Ondokuz Mayis University School of 
Medicine, Samsun, Turkey.
(3)Departments of Medical Biostatistics, Ondokuz Mayis University School of 
Medicine, Samsun, Turkey.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the parenchymal elasticity of the thyroid gland with 
acoustic radiation force impulse imaging in pediatric patients with Hashimoto 
thyroiditis and to compare it with healthy volunteers.
METHODS: Twenty-six patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis and 26 healthy 
volunteers between 6 and 17 years were included. The shear wave velocity (SWV) 
values of both thyroid lobes in both groups were evaluated.
RESULTS: The age and sex characteristics of the controls and patients with 
Hashimoto thyroiditis were similar. The SWV of the thyroid gland in patients 
with Hashimoto thyroiditis (mean ± SD, 1.67 ± 0.63 m/s) was significantly higher 
than that in the control group (1.30 ± 0.13 m/s; P < .001). There was no 
significant difference between the thyroid lobes in both groups. A receiver 
operating characteristic curve analyses showed an optimal cutoff value of 
1.41 m/s, with 73.1% sensitivity, 80.8% specificity, a 79.2 % positive 
predictive value, and a 75.0% negative predictive value (area under the curve, 
0.806; P < .001). In patients with Hashimoto thyroiditis, there was a positive 
correlation between the SWV values versus anti-thyroperoxidase (Pearson 
r = 0.46; P = .038). There were no correlations between age, body mass index, 
thyroid function test results, and anti-thyroglobulin values and versus SWV 
values. Also, no significant differences were seen between the groups for gland 
size, gland vascularity, and l-thyroxine treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Acoustic radiation force impulse elastography showed a significant 
difference in the stiffness of the thyroid gland between children with Hashimoto 
thyroiditis and the healthy group. Using acoustic radiation force impulse 
elastography immediately after a standard ultrasound evaluation may predict 
chronic autoimmune thyroiditis.

© 2017 by the American Institute of Ultrasound in Medicine.

DOI: 10.1002/jum.14459
PMID: 29064111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Immunobiology. 2018 Mar;223(3):264-268. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2017.10.039.
Epub  2017 Oct 16.

Serum interleukin-6 levels are increased in HIV-infected patients that develop 
autoimmune disease during long-term follow-up.

Trovato M(1), Ruggeri RM(2), Sciacchitano S(3), Vicchio TM(2), Picerno I(4), 
Pellicanò G(5), Valenti A(2), Visalli G(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Messina, Italy. Electronic 
address: mariatrovato@tin.it.
(2)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Messina, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Biomedical Research, Niccolò Cusano University Foundation, 
Rome, Italy; Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Sapienza University, 
Policlinico Umberto I, Rome, Italy.
(4)Department of Biomedical and Dental Sciences and Morphofunctional Imaging, 
University of Messina, Italy.
(5)Department of Human Pathology of Adult and Developmental Age 'Gaetano 
Barresi', Messina, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Elevated IL-6 levels have been associated with both autoimmune 
diseases and treated HIV-seropositive (HIV+) subjects. However, few data on 
classic and trans-signaling IL-6 in autoimmune thyroid diseases and HIV+ 
subjects developing autoimmune disorders are currently available.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 102 patients were included in the study. They 
were subdivided into two groups. Group A consisted in 51 HIV+ patients, who were 
followed-up for a period of five years in search of possible occurrence of 
autoimmune diseases. Ten of them, treated with antiretroviral therapy (ART), 
developed an autoimmune disorder, namely Hashimoto's thyroiditis, and psoriasis. 
Group B consisted in 51 patients affected by Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). Serum 
levels of the free form of IL-6 were analyzed by ELISA in all patients and for 
HIV+ patients at the beginning of the follow-up, before initiation of ART.
RESULTS: Mean serum levels of IL-6 were similar in Group A and in Group B. In 
Group B, IL-6 levels showed a 5.8% increase compared with assay minimum 
detectable dose corresponding to 1% of full serum IL-6 level. However, serum 
levels of free IL-6 were increased in those HIV+ patients who developed 
autoimmune disorders (5.8±2.8pg/ml) and in these patients, the highest levels of 
free IL-6 correlated with age and CD4 cellular counts.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study indicates a correlation between serum free IL-6 
levels and the occurrence of autoimmune disease in HIV+ population, treated with 
ART during a long-term follow-up. The increased levels of serum free IL-6 were 
observed before ART treatment was initiated, indicating that IL-6 measurement in 
such patients may represent an early predictor of development of autoimmune 
disease.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2017.10.039
PMID: 29055566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Gene. 2018 Feb 5;642:152-158. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.10.053. Epub 2017 Oct
18.

Differential expression levels of plasma microRNA in Hashimoto's disease.

Zhao L(1), Zhou X(2), Shan X(3), Qi LW(4), Wang T(2), Zhu J(5), Zhu D(6), Huang 
Z(2), Zhang L(2), Zhang H(2), Yin Y(7), Wang Z(8), Zhu W(9), Cheng W(10), Jiang 
L(11).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, First Affiliated Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, PR China; 
Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Puyang Municipal Anyang Area 
Hospital, 260 Dengta Road, Anyang, HeNan 455000, PR China.
(2)Department of Oncology, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, PR China.
(3)Department of Respiration, The Affiliated Jiangning Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, Nanjing 210000, PR China.
(4)State Key Laboratory of Natural Medicines and Department of Pharmacognosy, 
China Pharmaceutical University, No. 24 Tongjia Lane, Nanjing, 210009, PR China.
(5)Department of Radiation Oncology, Jiangsu Cancer Hospital, No. 42 Bai Zi 
Ting, Nanjing 210009, PR China.
(6)Department of Oncology, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Soochow University, 
Changzhou 213003, PR China.
(7)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing 
Medical University, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, PR China.
(8)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, First Affiliated Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, PR China.
(9)Department of Oncology, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, PR China. Electronic address: 
zhuwei@njmu.edu.cn.
(10)Department of Gastroenterology, First Affiliated Hospital of Nanjing Medical 
University, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, PR China. Electronic address: 
chengwenfang@aliyun.com.
(11)Department of Endocrinology and Metabolism, First Affiliated Hospital of 
Nanjing Medical University, 300 Guangzhou Road, Nanjing 210029, PR China. 
Electronic address: jlinna0000@163.com.

BACKGROUND: The altered expression of circulating miRNAs has been discovered in 
many autoimmune diseases (ADs). With rare existing research, it is still unclear 
in Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT). We detected plasma miRNA expression of HT 
patients in this three-stage designed study.
METHODS: Differently expressed miRNAs (4 HT pools vs. 1 normal control pool) 
were identified using quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain 
reaction (qRT-PCR) based Exiqon panel (miRCURY-Ready-to-Use- PCR-Human- 
panel-I+II-V1.M) in the initial discovery stage. These miRNAs were then 
confirmed in the training stage and further validated in the testing stage using 
qRT-PCR with 64 (32 HT vs. 32 NCs) and 136 samples (68 HT vs. 68 NCs), 
respectively.
RESULTS: A total of 10 miRNAs showed differential expression through the 
training stage. For further validation in the testing stage, expression of 6 
miRNAs (miR-205, miR-20a-3p, miR-375, miR-296, miR-451, miR-500a) were 
consistent with those in the training stage. Combination results showed that 
these 6 miRNAs were significantly up-regulated in peripheral plasma of HT 
patients compared with normal controls (P<0.05). In addition, the six-miRNA 
signature was evaluated to be a potential diagnostic marker of HT. The areas 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve of the signature were 0.80, 
0.75 and 0.69 for the training, testing and the combined stages, respectively. 
Three miRNAs were associated with TSH levels in HT patients (miR-451, P=0.043; 
miR-375, P=0.043; miR-500a, P=0.043). Additionally, miR-20a-3p was related with 
TgAb level (P=0.046).
CONCLUSIONS: We identified a miRNA signature including six dysregulated plasma 
miRNAs which could act as a diagnostic marker in plasma of HT, providing more 
evidence and better understanding for the association between circulating miRNAs 
and autoimmune diseases.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2017.10.053
PMID: 29054761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Braz J Otorhinolaryngol. 2018 Nov-Dec;84(6):729-735. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjorl.2017.08.012. Epub 2017 Sep 14.

Hashimoto's thyroiditis - an independent risk factor for papillary carcinoma.

Uhliarova B(1), Hajtman A(2).

Author information:
(1)FD Roosevelt Faculty Hospital, Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Banska 
Bystrica, Slovakia. Electronic address: b.uhliarova@gmail.com.
(2)Comenius University, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine, Department of 
Otorhinolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Martin, Slovakia.

INTRODUCTION: The link between Hashimoto's thyroiditis and thyroid carcinoma has 
long been a topic of controversy.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of our study was to determine the prevalence of thyroid 
carcinoma and Hashimoto's thyroiditis coexistence in histopathologic material of 
thyroidectomized patients.
METHODS: In a retrospective study, the clinicohistopathologic data of 2117 
patients (1738 females/379 males), who underwent total or partial thyroidectomy 
for thyroid gland disorder at a single institution from the 1st of January 2005 
to the 31st of December 2014 were analyzed.
RESULTS: Thyroid carcinoma was detected in 318 cases (15%) and microcarcinoma 
(thyroid cancer ≤10mm in diameter) was found in permanent sections in 169 cases 
(8%). Hashimoto's thyroiditis was detected in 318 (15%) patients. Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis was significantly more often associated with thyroid carcinoma and 
microcarcinoma compare to benign condition (p=0.048, p=0.00014, respectively). 
Coexistence of Hashimoto's thyroiditis and thyroid carcinoma/thyroid 
microcarcinoma did not affect tumor size (p=0.251, p=0.098, respectively), or 
tumor multifocality (p=0.831, p=0.957, respectively). Bilateral thyroid 
microcarcinoma was significantly more often detected when Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis was also diagnosed (p=0.041), but presence of Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis did not affect bilateral occurrence of thyroid carcinoma (p=0.731).
CONCLUSION: Hashimoto's thyroiditis is associated with significantly increased 
risk of developing thyroid carcinoma, especially thyroid microcarcinoma.

INTRODUÇÃO: A relação entre a tireoidite de Hashimoto e o carcinoma de tireoide 
tem sido um tema de controvérsia por um longo tempo.
OBJETIVO: Determinar a prevalência da coexistência de carcinoma de tireoide e 
tireoidite de Hashimoto no exame histopatológico de amostras de pacientes 
tireoidectomizados.
MÉTODO: Em um estudo retrospectivo, foram analisados os dados 
clinico-histopatológicos de 2.117 pacientes (1.738 mulheres/379 homens), 
submetidos à tireoidectomia total ou parcial por distúrbio da glândula tireoide 
em uma única instituição, de 1° de janeiro de 2005 a 31 de dezembro de 2014.
RESULTADOS: O carcinoma de tireoide foi detectado em 318 casos (15%) e o 
microcarcinoma (câncer de tireoide ≤ 10 mm de diâmetro) foi encontrado em 
secções permanentes em 169 casos (8%). A tireoidite de Hashimoto foi detectada 
em 318 (15%) pacientes e foi associada ao carcinoma da tireoide e ao 
microcarcinoma com maior frequência em comparação com condições benignas (p = 
0,048, p = 0,00014, respectivamente). A coexistência de tireoidite de Hashimoto 
e carcinoma/microcarcinoma não influenciou o tamanho do tumor (p = 0,251, p = 
0,098, respectivamente) ou a multifocalidade tumoral (p = 0,831, p = 0,957, 
respectivamente). O microcarcinoma de tireoide bilateral foi detectado com maior 
frequência quando a tireoidite de Hashimoto também foi diagnosticada (p = 
0,041), mas a presença de tireoidite não influenciou na ocorrência bilateral de 
carcinoma (p = 0,731).
CONCLUSÃO: A tireoidite de Hashimoto está associada a um aumento significativo 
do risco do desenvolvimento de carcinoma de tireoide, especialmente 
microcarcinoma da tireoide.

Copyright © 2017 Associação Brasileira de Otorrinolaringologia e Cirurgia 
Cérvico-Facial. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2017.08.012
PMCID: PMC9442860
PMID: 28964693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Autoimmun. 2018 Jan;86:116-119. doi: 10.1016/j.jaut.2017.09.003. Epub 2017
Sep  21.

Monogenic Hashimoto thyroiditis associated with a variant in the thyroglobulin 
(TG) gene.

Lo MS(1), Towne M(2), VanNoy GE(2), Brownstein CA(2), Lane AA(3), Chatila TA(4), 
Agrawal PB(5).

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Immunology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, United States. Electronic address: 
mindy.lo@childrens.harvard.edu.
(2)Genetics and Genomics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, United States; The Manton Center for Orphan Disease 
Research, Boston Children's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, 
United States.
(3)Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, United States.
(4)Divisions of Immunology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, United States.
(5)Genetics and Genomics, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA, United States; Division of Newborn Medicine, Dana-Farber 
Cancer Institute and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States; The 
Manton Center for Orphan Disease Research, Boston Children's Hospital and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, United States.

BACKGROUND: Risk of autoimmune thyroid disease (AITD) is strongly heritable. 
Multiple genes confer increased risk for AITD, but a monogenic origin has not 
yet been described. We studied a family with apparent autosomal dominant, early 
onset Hashimoto thyroiditis.
METHODS: The family was enrolled in an IRB-approved protocol. Whole exome 
sequencing was used to study the proband and an affected sibling. The identified 
variant was studied in other family members by Sanger sequencing.
RESULTS: We identified a previously unreported splice site variant in the 
thyroglobulin gene (TG c.1076-1G > C). This variant was confirmed in all 
affected family members who underwent testing, and also noted in one unaffected 
child. The variant is associated with exon 9 skipping, resulting in a novel 
in-frame variant transcript of TG.
CONCLUSION: We discovered a monogenic form of AITD associated with a splice site 
variant in the thyroglobulin gene. This finding raises questions about the 
origins of thyroid autoimmunity; possible explanations include increased 
immunogenicity of the mutated protein or thyroid toxicity with secondary 
development of anti-thyroid antibodies. Further study into the effects of this 
variant on thyroid function and thyroid autoimmunity are warranted.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaut.2017.09.003
PMID: 28942902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Endocrinol Invest. 2018 May;41(5):523-529. doi: 10.1007/s40618-017-0755-2.
 Epub 2017 Sep 19.

Anti-parietal cell antibodies in patients with autoimmune thyroid diseases.

Utiyama SRR(1)(2), De Bem RS(3), Skare TL(4), De Carvalho GA(5), Teixeira LM(5), 
Bertolazo M(1), Ioshii SO(1)(6), Nisihara R(7)(8).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Immunopathology, Clinical Hospital, Federal University of 
Paraná, Rua Padre Camargo, 280, 80060-240, Curitiba, Brazil.
(2)Department of Clinical Analysis, Federal University of Paraná, Curitiba, 
Brazil.
(3)Gastroenterology and Endoscopy Service, Clinical Hospital, Federal University 
of Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil.
(4)Evangelic University Hospital of Curitiba, Curitiba, Brazil.
(5)Endocrinology Service, Clinical Hospital, Federal University of Paraná, 
Curitiba, Brazil.
(6)Graduate Program in Health Technology, Pontifical Catholic University of 
Paraná, Curitiba, Brazil.
(7)Laboratory of Immunopathology, Clinical Hospital, Federal University of 
Paraná, Rua Padre Camargo, 280, 80060-240, Curitiba, Brazil. 
renatonisihara@gmail.com.
(8)Department of Medicine, Positivo University, Curitiba, Brazil. 
renatonisihara@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Autoimmune thyroid disease (ATD) patients may have a higher 
prevalence of anti-parietal cell antibodies (APCA) than normal population.
OBJECTIVE: To study the prevalence of APCA in a cohort of ATD patients to know 
its association with patient's clinical profile and gastrointestinal complaints.
METHODS: APCA was sought for by indirect immunofluorescence test in 243 ATD 
patients: 136 (55.9%) with Graves' disease and 107 (44.0%) with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis. A structured questionnaire for gastrointestinal symptoms, previous 
history of thrombosis, arthralgia and other autoimmune diseases in the patients 
and their families was applied. Positive and negative APCA individuals were 
compared. Positive patients were invited to perform upper gastrointestinal 
endoscopy and biopsy of duodenum segments. Sera from 100 healthy individuals 
from the same geographic area were used as controls.
RESULTS: APCA was present in 20.1% (49/243) of ATD patients: 21.3% (29/136) in 
the Graves' sample and 18.6% (20/107) in the Hashimoto's sample (p = 0.61). 
Patients with positive APCA had more anemia (p = 0.03; OR = 2.89; 95% 
CI = 1.03-8.07) and less heartburn (p = 0.01; OR = 0.4; 95% CI = 0.20-0.83). 
Among the group of 49 APCA-positive patients, 24 agreed with upper endoscopy and 
it was found that 54.1% had atrophic gastritis.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a high prevalence of positive APCA in ATD patients. APCA 
are more common in those with anemia and less common in those with complaints of 
heartburn. Almost half of positive APCA patients had atrophic gastritis.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-017-0755-2
PMID: 28929353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2018 Jan;88(1):123-128. doi: 10.1111/cen.13475. Epub
2017  Oct 4.

Influence of coexistent Hashimoto's thyroiditis on the extent of cervical lymph 
node dissection and prognosis in papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Song E(1), Jeon MJ(1), Park S(1), Kim M(1), Oh HS(1), Song DE(2), Kim WG(1), Kim 
WB(1), Shong YK(1), Kim TY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Pathology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan College of 
Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Previous studies did not focus on the differences in the extent of 
cervical lymph node (LN) dissection according to coexistent Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis (HT) in patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) and its 
clinical impact. We aimed to determine whether extensive cervical LN dissection 
is responsible for favourable clinical outcomes in PTC patients with HT and 
whether the coexistence of HT itself has an independent protective effect 
regardless of LN status.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
PATIENTS: 1369 patients with PTC who underwent total thyroidectomy with central 
compartment neck dissection.
MEASUREMENTS: Metastatic LN ratio, defined as number of metastatic LNs divided 
by number of removed LNs, was used to evaluate the extent of LN dissection as 
well as the status of LN metastasis. Disease-free survival and dynamic risk 
stratification were compared for clinical outcomes.
RESULTS: Presence of HT did not lower the risk of cervical LN metastasis (61.6% 
in patients with HT vs 65.1% in patients without HT, P = .292). Patients with HT 
had significantly larger numbers of removed LNs than patients without HT (11 vs 
8, respectively, P < .001). Accordingly, metastatic LN ratio was smaller in 
patients with HT (P = .002), which was independently associated with structural 
persistent/recurrent disease (hazard ratio [HR] 2.33, 95% confidence interval 
[CI] 1.30-4.16, P = .004). HT itself was negatively associated with structural 
persistent/recurrent disease after adjustment for other clinicopathological 
factors (HR 0.39, 95% CI 0.18-0.87, P = .020).
CONCLUSIONS: Coexistence of HT itself is an independent factor associated with 
favourable outcome in PTC patients, regardless of the extent of LN dissection.

© 2017 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.13475
PMID: 28906015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Endocrinol Invest. 2018 Apr;41(4):395-402. doi: 10.1007/s40618-017-0757-0.
 Epub 2017 Sep 5.

High prevalence of papillary thyroid carcinoma in nodular Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis at the first diagnosis and during the follow-up.

Boi F(1)(2), Pani F(3), Calò PG(4)(5), Lai ML(6), Mariotti S(3)(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy. boi@medicina.unica.it.
(2)Endocrinology Unit, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Cagliari, SS 554, 
Bivio per Sestu, Monserrato, 09042, Cagliari, Italy. boi@medicina.unica.it.
(3)Department of Medical Sciences and Public Health, University of Cagliari, 
Cagliari, Italy.
(4)Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(5)Surgery Unit, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Cagliari, Cagliari, Italy.
(6)Cytomorphology Unit, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Cagliari, Cagliari, 
Italy.
(7)Endocrinology Unit, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Cagliari, SS 554, 
Bivio per Sestu, Monserrato, 09042, Cagliari, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The association between Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) and papillary 
thyroid carcinoma (PTC) remains to be elucidated.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 484 HT patients were retrospectively 
subdivided into two groups: 243 without thyroid nodules, TNs (HTN-) and 241 with 
TNs (HTN+). Fine-needle aspiration cytology was available in 152 HTN+ patients. 
This group was compared to a group of 161 patients with nodular goiter (NG) 
without HT. Finally, 70 HTN+ and 37 NG patients underwent surgery.
RESULTS: A very high prevalence of suspicious/malignant cytology (Thy 4-5) at 
the first diagnosis (38/124; 31%) and during the follow-up (6/28; 22%) was found 
in HTN+ group. In HTN- group, 22/130 (17%) patients developed TN, but none 
showed malignant features during the follow-up. HTN+ patients had higher 
prevalence of Thy 4-5 (44/152 = 28.9%) compared to NG patients (12/161 = 7.4%, 
p < 0.0001). Increased independent odds ratio (OR) for malignancy was conferred 
by serum TSH > 1.0 μUI/ml, [OR 1.93, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.41-2.64, 
p < 0.0001], male sex (OR 3.44, CI 1.48-8.02, p = 0.004) and HT (OR 3.14; CI 
1.08-9.31, p < 0.05). Malignant histology (mostly PTC) was confirmed higher in 
HTN+ (48/70, 68.6%) compared to NG (15/37, 40.5%; p < 0.05). Higher prevalence 
of extrathyroidal infiltration (24/48, 50%) and vascular invasion (25/48, 52%) 
was found in HTN+ vs NG (2/15, 1.3% p < 0.01), (3/16, 1.8% p < 0.05), 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study confirms higher prevalence of suspicious/malignant 
cytology and PTC at histology in nodular HT compared to NG, without evidence of 
malignancy in non-nodular HT patients during the follow-up.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-017-0757-0
PMID: 28875268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Curr Opin Neurobiol. 2018 Feb;48:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.conb.2017.07.012. Epub
2017  Aug 19.

Neurobiology of autoimmune encephalitis.

Fukata M(1), Yokoi N(2), Fukata Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Membrane Physiology, Department of Molecular and Cellular 
Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, National Institutes 
of Natural Sciences, Okazaki 444-8787, Japan; Department of Physiological 
Sciences, School of Life Science, SOKENDAI, The Graduate University for Advanced 
Studies, Okazaki 444-8787, Japan. Electronic address: mfukata@nips.ac.jp.
(2)Division of Membrane Physiology, Department of Molecular and Cellular 
Physiology, National Institute for Physiological Sciences, National Institutes 
of Natural Sciences, Okazaki 444-8787, Japan; Department of Physiological 
Sciences, School of Life Science, SOKENDAI, The Graduate University for Advanced 
Studies, Okazaki 444-8787, Japan.

Autoimmune encephalitis presenting with amnesia, seizures, and psychosis is 
highly topical in basic and clinical neuroscience. Recent studies have 
identified numerous associated autoantibodies, targeting cell-surface synaptic 
proteins including neurotransmitter receptors (e.g. NMDA receptors (NMDARs)) and 
a secreted protein, LGI1. In vitro and in vivo analyses of the influence of the 
autoantibodies have begun to clarify their causal roles. Of particular interest 
is the generation of recombinant monoclonal antibodies from patients' B cells 
with anti-NMDAR encephalitis. Patient monoclonal antibodies could be useful to 
reveal their direct, detailed pathogenicity. Such identification and 
characterization of autoantibodies could create new categories of neurological 
diseases and promote the understanding of patho-physiologic roles of target 
proteins in human brain function.

Copyright © 2017 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.conb.2017.07.012
PMID: 28829986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Brain Dev. 2018 Jan;40(1):42-48. doi: 10.1016/j.braindev.2017.07.008. Epub
2017  Aug 4.

Hashimoto encephalopathy in pediatric patients: Homogeneity in clinical 
presentation and heterogeneity in antibody titers.

Lee J(1), Yu HJ(2), Lee J(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Hanllym University Sacred Heart Hospital, Anyang, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
jhlee0101@skku.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Hashimoto encephalopathy is an autoimmune encephalopathy 
characterized by elevated antithyroid antibodies and a favorable response to 
corticosteroid. This study delineated the clinical characteristics of pediatric 
Hashimoto encephalopathy and the significance of low antithyroid antibody titers 
in diagnosis and treatment.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: Clinical manifestations, antibody titers, and treatment 
responses were retrospectively reviewed in six consecutive children diagnosed 
with Hashimoto encephalopathy between August 2008 and July 2016.
RESULTS: Age at diagnosis was 10-17years. Presenting symptoms were seizures, 
altered consciousness, behavioral changes, psychosis, tremor, and dystonia. 
Thyroid function was normal in five patients, and one had hypothyroidism prior 
to the encephalopathy. Antithyroid antibody titer was increased at presentation 
in five patients and one week later in the other. Antibody levels were extremely 
varied (anti-thyroglobulin, 20.5-2318.0U/ml; anti-thyroid peroxidase, 
12.5-2231.0U/ml; reference range, <60U/ml) and <180U/ml in two patients. 
Electroencephalogram was abnormal in five patients. Brain magnetic resonance 
imaging was unremarkable. Four patients responded to high-dose corticosteroid 
and one improved with additional intravenous immunoglobulin. The remaining 
patient did not respond to both treatments and normalized after plasmapheresis. 
Autoantibody titers decreased with treatment response in the acute stage. Two 
patients with low antibody titers showed similar clinical presentations and 
responses.
CONCLUSIONS: The clinical presentations and treatment responses in Hashimoto 
encephalopathy were similar, irrespective of antithyroid antibody titer. Because 
the initial antithyroid antibody titers can be normal or mildly-elevated, 
follow-up testing of antithyroid antibodies is required in patients who are 
clinically suspect for Hashimoto encephalopathy.

Copyright © 2017 The Japanese Society of Child Neurology. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.braindev.2017.07.008
PMID: 28784301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Health Commun. 2018 Sep;33(9):1194-1197. doi: 10.1080/10410236.2017.1339372.
 Epub 2017 Jul 5.

What They Don't See.

Clemens CM(1).

Author information:
(1)a School of Media & Communication , Bowling Green State University.

The author is currently living with a chronic autoimmune disease known as 
Hashimoto's Thyroiditis, which caused his hypothyroidism. Although this disease 
is most common in middle-aged women, he was diagnosed at age 23. This disease is 
unique, because it is not entirely visible to others. In this piece, he presents 
a personal narrative of his diagnosis process and utilizes poetic inquiry to 
demonstrate to readers what "they," meaning individuals without an invisible 
chronic autoimmune disease, don't see.

DOI: 10.1080/10410236.2017.1339372
PMID: 28678538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2018 May;41(5):308-309. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2017.05.014. Epub 2017 Jun 24.

Turner syndrome as a cause of liver cirrhosis.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Machlab S(1), Miquel M(2), Voltà T(1), Escoda MR(3), Vergara M(4).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Corporación Sanitaria Parc Taulí, Universidad 
Autónoma de Barcelona, Sabadell, Barcelona, España.
(2)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Corporación Sanitaria Parc Taulí, Universidad 
Autónoma de Barcelona, Sabadell, Barcelona, España; CIBERhed Instituto Carlos 
III, Madrid, España.
(3)Servicio de Anatomía Patológica, Corporación Sanitaria Parc Taulí, 
Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona, Sabadell, Barcelona, España.
(4)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Corporación Sanitaria Parc Taulí, Universidad 
Autónoma de Barcelona, Sabadell, Barcelona, España; CIBERhed Instituto Carlos 
III, Madrid, España. Electronic address: mvergara@tauli.cat.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2017.05.014
PMID: 28655407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Braz J Otorhinolaryngol. 2018 Jul-Aug;84(4):448-452. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjorl.2017.05.005. Epub 2017 Jun 2.

Influence of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis on the risk of persistent and 
recurrent disease in patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma and elevated 
antithyroglobulin antibodies after initial therapy.

Côrtes MCS(1), Rosario PW(2), Mourão GF(1), Calsolari MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Santa Casa de Belo Horizonte, Serviço de Endocrinologia, Belo Horizonte, MG, 
Brazil.
(2)Santa Casa de Belo Horizonte, Serviço de Endocrinologia, Belo Horizonte, MG, 
Brazil. Electronic address: pedrowsrosario@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: In patients with papillary thyroid carcinoma who have negative 
serum thyroglobulin after initial therapy, the risk of structural disease is 
higher among those with elevated antithyroglobulin antibodies compared to 
patients without antithyroglobulin antibodies. Other studies suggest that the 
presence of chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis is associated with a lower risk of 
persistence/recurrence of papillary thyroid carcinoma.
OBJECTIVE: This prospective study evaluated the influence of chronic lymphocytic 
thyroiditis on the risk of persistence and recurrence of papillary thyroid 
carcinoma in patients with negative thyroglobulin but elevated antithyroglobulin 
antibodies after initial therapy.
METHODS: This was a prospective study. Patients with clinical examination 
showing no anomalies, basal Tg<1ng/mL, and elevated antithyroglobulin antibodies 
8-12 months after ablation were selected. The patients were divided into two 
groups: Group A, with chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis on histology; Group B, 
without histological chronic lymphocytic thyroiditis.
RESULTS: The time of follow-up ranged from 60 to 140 months. Persistent disease 
was detected in 3 patients of Group A (6.6%) and in 6 of Group B (8.8%) (p=1.0). 
During follow-up, recurrences were diagnosed in 2 patients of Group A (4.7%) and 
in 5 of Group B (8%) (p=0.7). Considering both persistent and recurrent disease, 
structural disease was detected in 5 patients of Group A (11.1%) and in 11 of 
Group B (16.1%) (p=0.58). There was no case of death related to the disease.
CONCLUSION: Our results do not support the hypothesis that chronic lymphocytic 
thyroiditis is associated with a lower risk of persistent or recurrent disease, 
at least in patients with persistently elevated antithyroglobulin antibodies 
after initial therapy for papillary thyroid carcinoma.

INTRODUÇÃO: Em pacientes com carcinoma papilífero de tireoide e com 
tireoglobulina sérica negativa após a terapia inicial, o risco de doença 
estrutural é maior entre aqueles com anticorpos antitireoglobulina elevados em 
comparação com pacientes sem anticorpos antitireoglobulina. Outros estudos 
sugerem que a presença de tireoidite linfocítica crônica está associada a um 
menor risco de persistência/recorrência do carcinoma papilífero de teireoide.
OBJETIVO: Este estudo prospectivo avaliou a influência da tireoidite linfocítica 
crônica sobre o risco de persistência e recorrência do carcinoma papilífero de 
tireoide em pacientes com tireoglobulina negativa, mas com anticorpos 
antitireoglobulinas elevados após a terapia inicial.
MÉTODO: Esse foi um estudo prospectivo, no qual foram selecionados pacientes com 
exame clínico sem anomalias; tireoglobulina basal < 1 ng/mL e anticorpos 
antitireoglobulina elevados 8-12 meses após ablação. Os pacientes foram 
divididos em dois grupos: Grupo A, com tireoidite linfocítica crônica no exame 
histológico; Grupo B, histologicamente sem tireoidite linfocítica crônica.
RESULTADOS: O tempo de seguimento variou de 60 a 140 meses. Doença persistente 
foi detectada em 3 pacientes do Grupo A (6,6%) e em 6 do Grupo B (8,8%) 
(p = 1,0). Durante o seguimento, as recidivas foram diagnosticadas em 2 
pacientes do Grupo A (4,7%) e em 5 do Grupo B (8%) (p = 0,7). Considerando tanto 
a doença persistente quanto a recorrente, doença estrutural foi detectada em 5 
pacientes do Grupo A (11,1%) e em 11 do Grupo B (16,1%) (p = 0,58). Não houve 
nenhum caso de óbito relacionado à doença.
CONCLUSÃO: Nossos resultados não apoiam a hipótese de que a tireoidite 
linfocítica crônica esteja associada a um menor risco de doença persistente ou 
recorrente, pelo menos em pacientes com anticorpos antitireoglobulina 
persistentemente elevados após a terapia inicial do carcinoma papilífero de 
tireoide.

Copyright © 2017 Associação Brasileira de Otorrinolaringologia e Cirurgia 
Cérvico-Facial. Published by Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjorl.2017.05.005
PMCID: PMC9449248
PMID: 28625809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Appl Neuropsychol Adult. 2018 Nov-Dec;25(6):572-580. doi: 
10.1080/23279095.2017.1326048. Epub 2017 May 26.

Neuropsychological impairment in Hashimoto's encephalopathy: A case report and 
literature review.

Sabbah-Talasazan L(1), Piryatinsky I(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Psychology , Suffolk University , Boston , Massachusetts , 
USA.
(2)b Department of Psychiatry , Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center , Boston , 
Massachusetts , USA.

Hashimoto's encephalopathy (HE) is a rare neurological syndrome characterized by 
the presence of positive serum antithyroid antibodies, altered mental status, 
and clinical response to glucocorticoid therapy. Although HE has been documented 
in the literature from a medical standpoint, reports on the neuropsychological 
presentation of this syndrome are scarce. This article presents a literature 
review of cognitive deficits reported in HE cases. In addition, we describe the 
case of a 76-year-old Russian speaking woman diagnosed with HE in May 2012. MRIs 
from her disease course and treatment are presented. Posttreatment 
neuropsychological testing revealed intact attention and construction and 
impairment in working memory, processing speed, learning, executive functioning, 
language, and bilateral fine motor dexterity, all of which impacted her 
functional abilities. Her profile was inconsistent with the typical dementia 
process. This case demonstrates the utility of neuropsychological assessment for 
understanding cognitive and functional consequences of HE. The issue of 
differential diagnosis with dementia is also discussed.

DOI: 10.1080/23279095.2017.1326048
PMID: 28548544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Int J Rheum Dis. 2018 Jan;21(1):186-193. doi: 10.1111/1756-185X.13089. Epub
2017  May 25.

Hashimoto thyroiditis, anti-thyroid antibodies and systemic lupus erythematosus.

Posselt RT(1), Coelho VN(1), Skare TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Evangelic University Hospital, Curitiba, Brazil.

AIM: To study the prevalence of Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT), anti-thyroid 
autoantibodies (anti-thyroglobulin or TgAb and thyroperoxidase or TPOAb) in 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients. To analyze if associated HT, TgAb 
and/or TPOAb influence clinical or serological profiles, disease activity and/or 
its cumulative damage.
METHODS: Three hundred and one SLE patients and 141 controls were studied for 
thyroid stimulating hormone, thyroxin, TgAb and TPOAb by chemiluminescence and 
immunometric assays. Patients' charts were reviewed for serological and clinical 
profiles. Activity was measured by SLE Disease Activity Index and cumulative 
damage by Systemic Lupus International Collaborating Clinics/American College of 
Rheumatology Damage Index for SLE. SLE patients were divided into: (i) with HT; 
(ii) with anti-thyroid antibodies but without HT; and (iii) without HT and 
without anti-thyroid antibodies, and were then compared. Furthermore, SLE 
patients were compared according to the number of positive anti-thyroid 
antibodies.
RESULTS: Hashimoto thyroiditis prevalence in SLE was 12.6% and 5.6% in controls 
(P = 0.02; odds ratio = 2.4; 95% CI = 1.09-5.2). Lupus patients with HT had less 
malar rash (P = 0.02) and more anti-Sm (P = 0.04). Anti-Sm was more common in 
those with two anti-thyroid antibodies than in those with one or negative. The 
presence of HT or the number of positive autoantibodies did not associate either 
with disease activity (P = 0.95) or with cumulative damage (P = 0.98).
CONCLUSION: There is a two-fold increased risk of HT in SLE patients. Anti-Sm 
antibodies favor this association and also double antibody positivity. Disease 
activity and cumulative damage are not related to HT or with autoantibodies.

© 2017 Asia Pacific League of Associations for Rheumatology and John Wiley & 
Sons Australia, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/1756-185X.13089
PMID: 28544477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Clin Pediatr (Phila). 2018 Feb;57(2):173-179. doi: 10.1177/0009922817698805.
 Epub 2017 Apr 19.

An Unusual Cause of Frequent, Sudden, Transient, Unexplained Falls and New-Onset 
Status Epilepticus: Case Report and Mini-Review.

Singh D(1), Dyer A(1), Gu S(1), McCarville P(1), Hess A(1), Akingbola O(1), 
El-Dahr J(1), Nelson S(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Tulane University School of Medicine, New Orleans, LA, USA.

We report a 14-year old adolescent Caucasian female, who presented with 
frequent, sudden, transient, and unexplained falls leading to multiple serious 
injuries to her head and extremities requiring several visits to the emergency 
department. She was evaluated numerous times and imaging studies, 
echocardiogram, electrocardiogram, and electroencephalogram studies were all 
normal. She eventually presented to outside emergency department with dystonic 
posturing and status epilepticus and was transferred to our pediatric intensive 
care unit for further management. She was diagnosed with an uncommon, 
underrecognized and underdiagnosed condition. To our knowledge there is no such 
previous report in a pediatric patient.

DOI: 10.1177/0009922817698805
PMID: 28420263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. ANZ J Surg. 2018 Apr;88(4):359-362. doi: 10.1111/ans.13943. Epub 2017 Apr
16.

Total thyroidectomy for pressure symptoms in patients with Hashimoto's 
thyroiditis.

Heggie K(1)(2), Yeung M(1)(2), Grodski S(1)(2), Lee J(1)(2), Serpell J(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(2)Endocrine Surgery Unit, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Hashimoto's thyroiditis (HT) is rarely on its own the indication for 
thyroidectomy. However, surgery in patients with HT will be undertaken when 
there is malignancy and may be required for pressure symptoms. Therefore, this 
study aimed to investigate the indications for surgery in HT patients.
METHODS: The Monash University Endocrine Surgery Database was analysed from 1994 
to 2013 for patients with HT. Patients with HT were compared to a similar group 
of patients with no HT on histopathology. Patient demographics, indication for 
surgery, histopathology, gland weight and complications were analysed.
RESULTS: A total of 2346 patients underwent total thyroidectomy during the study 
period. The median age was 55 years. Eleven percent of patients had HT on final 
pathology (259/2346). HT patients reported more pressure symptoms, 25.5% 
compared to those with other pathology, 18.9% (P = 0.01). Patients with pressure 
symptoms had heavier glands, 113 g compared to 85 g in those with other 
indications for surgery (P = 0.048). Within the HT cohort, the median gland 
weight was 66 g compared to 93 g in those without HT (P < 0.01). On multivariate 
analysis, pressure symptoms as an indication for surgery was associated with HT 
(P < 0.01), but age, gender and gland weight were not associated. In patients 
operated for pressure with HT as the only pathology, 90% had relief of pressure 
symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Patients with HT were more likely to have pressure symptoms as an 
indication for surgery independent of gland weights.

© 2017 Royal Australasian College of Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ans.13943
PMID: 28419663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
